We know now what sends people to the hospital’s emergency department over the course of a year. There are common events like falling down stairs and tripping on a floor board, and there are seasonal things with sports and what not. 
  
 Is that really what we care about though? 
  
 The reason the ER seems so intriguing is because of the rare events. On one side of the spectrum, there are the people with real emergencies who need immediate medical attention. This is scary stuff for most people. 
  
 But then, on the other side of the spectrum there are the odd stories that make you go, “whaa?” Let’s focus on that. On one thing in particular. On, well, maybe this Seinfeld clip says it best: 
  
 Frank Costanza is furious with Kramer for making a supposed pass at his wife. In his rage, Frank slips and falls on a statuette of Jerry made of fusilli pasta. The episode ends at the proctologist and Frank exclaims, “Million to one shot, doc! Million to one.” 
  
 Million to one shot indeed. 
  
 As it turns out, people get a lot of things stuck in their rectum, but it’s typically the result of pushing something in rather than falling on something on the ground. We can find out what these things are through the same data — from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System — that we used to see general monthly patterns. 
  
 I downloaded data from 2009 through 2014, which like before, is a national sample from emergency departments in the United States. The data is focused on consumer products, and each record represents an ER visit and the main product that led to an injury. I then filtered down to injuries due to foreign bodies in the rectum. 
  
 So that’s where we’re at. 
  
 Between 2009 and 2014, there were an estimated 17,968 emergency room visits for foreign bodies stuck in a rectum. About three-quarters of patients were male, and as you might expect, many of the foreign bodies were sex toys. But, perhaps unexpectedly, about 60 percent of those foreign bodies were not sex toys. 
  
 The question is this: What are these other products? Well, it’s a wide range of 90 things, from glass bottles, to tableware, to hand tools. 
  
 I could graph the counts, but there’s not much point. The sex toys category (officially massage devices and vibrators), is around 40 percent and everything else on its own is around one percent or less. 
  
 Besides, the numbers aren’t nearly as interesting as the doctor notes that provide a short description of each case. So here they all are from 2009 to 2014. 
  
 Click or tap object for a new story. 
  
 FYI: YOF and YOM stand for year-old male and year-old female, respectively. DX stands for diagnosis. FB stands for foreign body. PT stands for patient. 
  
 I like all the shorthand, misspellings, and abbreviations that help me picture an ER physician with a stack of paperwork to do, whizzing by a rather mundane case of foreign body in rectum. Just another guy running from the cops with a plastic bag of cocaine. Just another drunk person who chose dare instead of truth. But for me, the story my wife told me about the patient who got a vaseline jar stuck will always stay with me. 
  
 It’s all fun and games until someone gets hurt. Be careful. 
  
 More Products that Cause Injury 
  
 Interested in non-rectum products? Here’s a look at the top 250 products that bring people to the ER over time. 
  
 All of the product images come from the Noun Project, which I find myself coming back to more often. The long list of credits: ziplok bag by Michael Wohlwend, jar by Adi Dizdarevic, bottle by Creative Stall, sex toy by Fabio Meroni, ball by Ema Dimitrova, straw by Juan Pablo Bravo, flatware by Jaap Knevel, pencil by lastspark, corkscrew by Gabriela Muñiz, lighter by Bohdan Burmich, shot glass by Lloyd Humphreys, electric toothbrush by lastspark, hook by Geoffrey Joe, duck toy by Pavel N., makeup brushes by parkjisun, necklace by celine labaume, hanger by Fabio Meroni, golf ball by hunotika, cream jar by Ashley Ma, diaper by Cynthia Alarcón, baby bottle by Chiara Rossi, screwdriver by factor[e] design initiative, battery by S.Shohei, radiator by Oliviu Stoian, rolling pin by Jaclyne Ooi, mortar by Creative Stall, candle by Maurizio Fusillo, tableware by Ralf Schmitzer, camera by Alexander Blagochevsky, telephone by Raj Mohanlal, laptop by Ainsley Wagoner, horn by James Kindred, television by Creative Stall, curtains by Andrey Vasiliev, bicycle by Edward Boatman, door handle by Gabriele Fumero, glass bottle by André Luiz Gollo, bucket by Creative Stall, billiards by Arthur Shlain, remote by Creative Stall, desk by Creative Stall, flashlight by artworkbean, bath by Adji Herdanto, vase by B Barrett, wire by Remco Homberg, rope by Adriano Gazzellini, pliers by Nathan Thomson, tools by Aha-Soft, toilet brush by parkjisun, soap by Stanislav Levin, test tubes by Alex Auda Samora, plastic wrap by OCHA Visual Information Unit, aerosol by Yaroslav Samoilov, toilet paper by Patrick Trouvé, lego by jon trillana, balloons by Marieva Cunha, marble by Pedro Martínez, doll by Francesco Cesqo Stefanini, garden hose by Oliviu Stoian, comb by parkjisun, t-shirt by Timur Zima, shaver by Vectors Market, pin cushion by Hollie Burgess, scrub brush by Daniel Ghinaglia, curling iron by Vectors Market, coins by artworkbean, first aid by Vectors Market, dog leash by Denora Daujatas, screws by Arthur Shlain, handrail by Arthur Shlain, window by Arthur Shlain, soccer ball by Nick Abrams, refrigerator by IlMostro, swimming pool by Stanislav Levin, mirror by Vectors Market, bed by Stefano Bertoni, crayons by Alfredo Hernandez, chess piece by Adame Dahmani, microwave oven by Yazmin Alanis, toy car by Oliviu Stoian, and tent by Erika Carter. 
  
  
  
  ||||| A 17-year-old man presented to the emergency room with abdominal pain and a foreign body in his anus. He told doctors he had inserted a pencil into his rectum and then had anal sex with the pencil still in there. He was treated and released. 
  
 The man's case is one of nearly 450 sex injuries found over six years in the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS), which is compiled by the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
  
 Read Full Article 
  
 "It's not uncommon that we see this, but it's not a daily occurrence," emergency physician Robert Glatter, MD, of Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, said of sex-related injuries. "We've had a woman with a head injury and fractured cervical spine, who basically ended up going forward into a headboard. She was very dizzy at the time and was on top of this gentleman lurching forward into a headboard." 
  
 In another sex injury in the database, a 62-year-old man sustained a penile crushing injury after putting homemade PCVP pipe rings and the ring off a horse halter around his penis. He, too, was treated and released. 
  
 Most of the sex injuries involved foreign objects used for pleasure that disappeared and got stuck in certain orifices, according to the data. Objects included vibrators and other sex toys as well as some other objects, including a "spikey (sic) rubber ball that lights up," a screwdriver, the handle of a toilet plunger, and a pool ball. 
  
 Sometimes, patients waited several days before going to the emergency room to have these objects removed. 
  
 "We see a ton of these. Patients delay and sometimes don't come in for a few days," Glatter said, explaining that perforation can occur with catastrophic results. "The longer you wait, sometimes you can even get septic." 
  
 Other sex injuries in the federal database included sprains and fractures, concussions, lacerations, and conditions like syncope. None of the injuries were fatal, and most patients were treated and released. 
  
 Glatter said patients shouldn't wait to go to the emergency room, even if they're embarrassed. 
  
 "We always have respect and privacy and never pass any judgment," Glatter said. "We want to make sure they're OK. I think that's what contributes to delays -- fear staff will react in a negative way." 
  
 Most sex-related injuries affected the lower trunk and pubic region, but others included the head, neck, and even mouth. 
  
 A 19-year-old woman sustained a sex-related dental injury after her "sex swing" fell out of the ceiling and her mouth was hit. 
  
 Although these injuries account for less than 0.02% of the 2.3 million reported injuries from 2009 through 2014, most sex-related injuries never get reported, experts say. 
  
 Sociologist Pepper Schwartz, PhD, of the University of Washington, said most of these injuries don't get reported because patients try to avoid the emergency room. Schwartz, a sociologist who specializes in sex, said the stress of an intercourse injury can bring couples together or tear them apart. 
  
 "The important thing is not to let yourself panic," she said, stressing that the vagina and the anus are not cut off from the rest of the body and can have serious consequences. "Get it fixed." 
  
 The database does not include penile injuries related to drugs like Viagra and Cialis, which Glatter said are also common. Adverse events from using medications would not be expected to appear in this data, and would instead appear in a Food and Drug Administration database. 
  
 Glatter added that alcohol and mood-altering drugs often also play a role in sex-related emergency room visits. 
  
 Valentine's Day is this month, but February is actually not the top month for sex injuries, according to the data. That month is July. ||||| This story is part of a partnership between MedPage Today and VICE News. 
  
 If you find yourself alone this Valentine's Day, we have a gift for you: knowledge that it could always be worse. Like way, way worse. 
  
 A 17-year-old man presented to the emergency room with abdominal pain and a foreign body in his anus. He told doctors he had inserted a pencil into his rectum and then had anal sex with the pencil still in there. He was treated and released. 
  
 The man's case is one of nearly 450 sex injuries found over six years in the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS), which is compiled by the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
  
 "It's not uncommon that we see this, but it's not a daily occurrence," emergency physician Dr. Robert Glatter, of Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, said of sex-related injuries. "We've had a woman with a head injury and fractured cervical spine, who basically ended up going forward into a headboard. She was very dizzy at the time and was on top of this gentleman lurching forward into a headboard." 
  
 In another sex injury in the database, a 62-year-old man sustained a penile crushing injury after putting homemade PCVP pipe rings and the ring off a horse halter around his penis. He, too, was treated and released. 
  
 Most of the sex injuries involved foreign objects used for pleasure that disappeared and got stuck in certain orifices, according to the data. Objects included vibrators and other sex toys as well as some other objects, including a "spikey (sic) rubber ball that lights up," a screwdriver, the handle of a toilet plunger, and a pool ball. 
  
 Sometimes, patients waited several days before going to the emergency room to have these objects removed. 
  
 "We see a ton of these. Patients delay and sometimes don't come in for a few days," Glatter said, explaining that perforation can occur with catastrophic results. "The longer you wait, sometimes you can even get septic." 
  
 Other sex injuries in the federal database included sprains and fractures, concussions, lacerations and conditions like syncope, in which the blood pressure drops rapidly and the person loses consciousness. None of the injuries were fatal, and most patients were treated and released. 
  
 Glatter said patients shouldn't wait to go to the emergency room, even if they're embarrassed. 
  
 "We always have respect and privacy and never pass any judgement," Glatter said. "We want to make sure they're OK. I think that's what contributes to delays — fear staff will react in a negative way." 
  
 Most sex-related injuries affected the lower trunk and pubic regeon, but others included the head, neck and even mouth. 
  
 A 19-year-old woman sustained a sex-related dental injury after her "sex swing" fell out of the ceiling and she hit her mouth. 
  
 Although these injuries account for less than .02% of the 2.3 million reported injuries from 2009 through 2014, most sex-related injuries never get reported, experts say. 
  
 Pepper Schwartz, PhD, of the University of Washington, said most of these injuries stay under the radar because patients try to avoid the emergency room. Schwartz, a sociologist who specializes in sex, added that the stress of an intercourse injury can bring couples together or tear them apart. 
  
 "The important thing is not to let yourself panic," she said, stressing that the vagina and the anus are not cut off from the rest of the body and sex injuries can have serious consequences. "Get it fixed." 
  
 The database does not include penile injuries related to drugs like Viagra and Cialis, which Glatter said are also common. Adverse events from using medications would not be expected to appear in this data, and would instead appear in a Food and Drug Administration database. 
  
 Glatter added that alcohol and mood-altering drugs often also play a role in sex-related emergency room visits. 
  
 Valentine's Day is this month, but February actually not the top month for sex injuries, according to the data. That month is July. 
  
 Photo via Vivatier ||||| CPSC’s National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) is a national probability sample of hospitals in the U.S. and its territories. Patient information is collected from each NEISS hospital for every emergency visit involving an injury associated with consumer products. From this sample, the total number of product-related injuries treated in hospital emergency rooms nationwide can be estimated. This web access to NEISS allows certain estimates to be retrieved on-line. These estimates can be focused by setting some or all of the following variables (and an example of each): 
  
 Date (one year maximum range; e.g., how many injuries were treated in 1996) 
  
 Product (e.g., how many bicycle injuries occurred) 
  
 Sex (e.g., how many injuries occurred to women) 
  
 Age (e.g., how many injuries occurred to people aged 35-55) 
  
 Diagnosis (e.g., how many lacerations occurred) 
  
 Disposition (e.g., how many people were admitted to the hospital) 
  
 Locale (e.g., how many injuries occurred at a school) 
  
 Body part (e.g., how many injuries involved the knee) 
  
 For example, the following query could be made: number of males between the ages of 50 and 70 treated in hospital emergency rooms between February 1999 and October 1999 for injuries associated with use of a ladder at home. The response would include the actual number of cases/injuries in the NEISS sample, and an estimate for the entire nation. 
  
 The product or products involved are chosen using NEISS product codes. It is extremely important to understand what codes apply to the date range specified in the query, as NEISS product codes change over time. Up to three product codes, or ranges of product codes, can be specified in a given query. The following sources will help you with choosing the appropriate product codes (note: pdf means that the document is in portable document format and if you have not done so already, requires downloading Adobe™ Acrobat™ software to be viewed): 
  
 The NEISS Product Code drop-down list on the NEISS query builder page 
  
 NEISS Coding Manual (pdf) - a description of which cases are included in NEISS, how they're coded and an alphabetical listing of products with current product codes 
  
 Product Code Comparability Table (pdf) - a numerical listing of all product codes with history of product code changes 
  
 Other sources of NEISS information: 
  
 We have recently added a new feature which allows you to preview, and then download, all cases meeting your query criteria. The download includes not only the parameters associated with each case, but also a narrative description of important aspects of each case. This feature is only available for queries with a "From" treatment date of January 1, 2002 or later. |||||