Blobfish voted ugliest animal in online mascot vote 
  
 We here at the Ugly Animal Preservation Society teamed up with the National Science + Engineering Competition to launch a worldwide search for a mascot for the society. 
  
 And we can now reveal that the winner was the blobfish. You can watch the announcement film below. 
  
  
  
 Scientists and comedians made campaign films for their favourite ugly animal and you voted in your thousands! You can watch the films below (or at www.youtube.com/uglyanimal). 
  
 In addition, Simon Watt and the National Science + Engineering Competition have created a range of exciting educational materials on ugly animals including worksheets and videos. 
  
 Help us make the animal kingdom a fairer and uglier place! 
  
 Check out the educational videos below. They’re perfect for use in the classroom, or even to give you some inspiration for a project you have planned. You can find more information on the National Science + Engineering Competition website. ||||| Ugly Animal Preservation Society name mascot 
  
 Today, the Ugly Animal Preservation Society announced that the blobfish has been voted their new mascot after a global online public vote. 
  
 Working in partnership with the National Science + Engineering Competition, the Society’s campaign videos have clocked-up nearly 100,000 views, and thousands have voted. Comedians celebrated 11 of Mother Nature’s most aesthetically-challenged beasts, with celebrities such as Stephen Fry and Simon Pegg tweeting their support for their favourite unsightly animals. 
  
 Paul Foot, the key supporter of the blobfish, said about the announcement, “On behalf of all the blobfish, thank you for this award. Thank you it means a great deal to me. Now, stay away from me and my family.” 
  
 The campaign aimed to give ugly animal a voice, and was supported by scientist and broadcaster Professor Brian Cox. He said, “I support the ugly animal campaign, there are too many people trying to save cute animals. They get all the press, and all the attention. Ugly animals are more deserving than cute animals. So I think it is a superb campaign.” 
  
 Simon Watt, biologist and President for Life of the Ugly Animal Preservation Society, announced the winner at the British Science Festival in Newcastle. He said, “We’ve needed an ugly face for endangered animals for a long time and I’ve been amazed by the public’s reaction. For too long the cute and fluffy animals have taken the limelight but now the blobfish will be a voice for the mingers who always get forgotten.” 
  
 The project aimed to encourage young people to get involved in conservation projects, as well as helping to promote some of the animals with faces only a mother could love, and challenging our love-affair with the pin-ups of conservation, like the panda and the red squirrel. 
  
 To find out more about the campaign and to watch the videos see: www.nsecuk.org 
  
 Meet the new Ugly Animal Preservation Society mascot 
  
 Blobfish live at depths of between 600 and 1,200 metres where the pressure is several dozen times higher than at sea level and can grow up to 12 inches in length. It spends its life gently bobbing around the deep sea and its gelatinous appearance aids it buoyancy. The blobfish suffers a significant threat from fishing trawlers – although it is inedible itself, it gets caught up in the nets. It feeds off crabs and lobsters living at the same depth. 
  
 Paul Foot (Never mind the Buzzcocks) – supported the blobfish. In his campaign video, he explained why he has a soft spot for this gelatinous blob…“Some would describe it as a bit ugly, but I think the sad face of the blobfish belies a kind and very wise little brain in there.” 
  
 Meet the runners up 
  
 Number 2: Kakapo 
  
 A critically endangered giant parrot, the kakapo is a classic example of evolution on an isolated island. The only flightless parrot in the world, it is also the heaviest. Its muscular thighs mean it is better suited to walking and climbing, than taking to the air – although it probably evolved from parrots that could fly. 
  
 Steve Mould (BBC Blue Peter scientist) explains why the kakapo deserves more support, “The kakapo encapsulates the fragility of life that evolved in a bubble – in this case, the bubble is New Zealand… but that bubble burst and New Zealand is full of predatory mammals, but the kakapo hasn’t evolved a fear response. Often its response is curiosity – ‘who’s this?’ the kakapo would say – ‘oh, I’m in its mouth…’” 
  
 Number 3: Axolotl 
  
 Axolotls have the amazing ability to regenerate lost limbs and are a type of salamander that remains aquatic for their entire life. This freaky cross between Peter Pan and the X-men, is endangered because of urbanisation in Mexico City and polluted waters. 
  
 Helen Arney (science presenter and comedian) supported this little critter; “Beauty is only skin deep, and the axolotl has a dark secret… it never truly grows up, it’s like Peter Pan, Justin Bieber, or any character Zooey Deschanel ever plays in a film…” 
  
 Number 4: Titicaca water frog 
  
 The largest truly aquatic frog, the Titicaca water frog is found only in Lake Titicaca in South America. Its Latin name literally translates as the ‘aquatic scrotum’ and the multiple folds in its skin enable it to breathe underwater without needing to surface for air. 
  
 Iszi Lawrence (comedian), is very excited by this. She says; “Scrotum frog, you heard me right, scrotum frog. Even better than being called scrotum frog, it lives in Lake Titicaca! 
  
 Number 5: Proboscis monkey 
  
 Named after its impressive nose, the proboscis monkey uses its nose as a resonating chamber to increase the volume of mating calls. The bigger the nose, the more attractive the mate. Its diet of unripe fruit makes it a pretty gassy primate and this gives it a fairly rotund appearance. 
  
 Ellie Taylor (presenter of Snog, Marry, Avoid) was the supporter for this big-nosed critter, she explains why: “These guys need our help! They can’t compete with the orang-utans, who are really cute, these guys are really hideous…They’ve got massive noses, really ugly willies, and they’re full of farts. I mean come on, that thing needs our help!” ||||| Must Reads 
  
 You May Not Want To Look: Blobfish Named 'Ugliest Animal' 
  
 itoggle caption NOAA.gov 
  
 At first glance, we thought it was a Star Wars character. 
  
 But, no, the blobfish is a real creature that bobs around in the waters off Australia. 
  
 And now it's the "winner" of the Ugly Animal Preservation Society's online vote to choose a mascot. 
  
 Or as the society and the British Science Association say, the blobfish has earned the title "world's ugliest animal." 
  
 The society is a whimsical British organization that mixes comedy with science to raise awareness about "the threats facing ... weird and wonderful creatures," the BBC says. According to the BBC, the blobfish won the society's contest "by almost 10,000 votes." 
  
 Other contenders included: 
  
 — The proboscis monkey. 
  
 — British bats. 
  
 — The flightless dung beetle. 
  
 As for the blobfish, here's what the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has to say about the "fatheads" in its Weird Fins podcast for kids: 
  
 "This is one of the funniest fish faces in the ocean, although you're not likely to see a blobfish since they live in very deep water off Australia. In fact, it's pretty rare for anyone to see blobfish, although they're sometimes taken in nets hauled in by Australia's deepwater fishing fleet. They really do look like a big, blobby tadpole, just a mass of pale, jelly-like flesh with puffy, loose skin, a big nose, and beady, staring eyes. But looking like a floppy water balloon is what actually helps the blobfish make a living. This guy just sort of floats above the sea floor so it doesn't have to spend a lot of energy swimming around, sort of like when you float in the water wearing a life jacket. "Blobfish seem to grow only to about 12 inches, about as long as a comic book. No one has seen them feed, but scientists think blobfish probably just open that big mouth and let little particles drift in — this is not a critter built to chase down its food." 
  
 According to the BBC, by the way, blobish are inedible. ||||| Scientists fear the blobfish, which can grow up to 12 inches, is in danger of being wiped out by over-fishing in its south eastern Australian habitat. 
  
 The fish, which lives at depths of up to 800m, is rarely seen by humans but it lives at the same depths as other ocean organisms, such as crabs and lobsters and other edible sea creatures. 
  
 As a result the fish, which is inedible, is being dragged up with other catches by trawler fishermen. 
  
 Marine expert Professor Callum Roberts, from University of York, said the blobfish had plenty to be miserable about. 
  
 Prof Roberts, who wrote the book "The Unnatural History of the Sea", said: "Blobfish are very vulnerable to being dragged up in these nets and from what we know this fish is only restricted to these waters. 
  
 "The Australian and New Zealand deep trawling fishing fleets are some of the most active in the world so if you are a blobfish then it is not a good place to be. 
  
 "A very large amount of the deep sea is under threat from bottom trawling which is one of the most destructive forms of fishing." 
  
 He added: "There are some deep water protected areas around sea mounts in the Southern Ocean but that is only really to protect coral and not the blobfish. 
  
 "We've been overfishing areas up to about 200m deep and now we have moved off those continental shelves and into the deep sea in areas a couple of thousand metres deep. 
  
 "In 2006 conservationists came very close to achieving a global moratorium on restricting bottom trawling on the high seas." 
  
 He continued: "They came within a whisker of that but Iceland rejected it so the United Nations was charged with protecting the deep sea species." 
  
 "If you add together all the area of the deep sea that has actually been looked at, then it is an area about the size of Paris, it's a really unexplored area, but we could be destroying it." |||||