SPARTANBURG, S.C. -- A baby officials say was poisoned with salt has died, reports CBS affiliate WSPA. 
  
 CBS affiliate WSPA 
  
 The child had been on life support. Investigators charged 23-year-old Kimberly Nicole Martines with felony child abuse after allegedly feeding 17-month-old Peyton a teaspoon of salt. 
  
 According to the incident report obtained by the station, on July 31, Martines said that she was woken up by the girl screaming. The 17-month-old was then taken to Spartanburg Medical Center, where she died Wednesday afternoon. 
  
 Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office spokesman Lt. Kevin Bobo said in a news release that doctors told them the salt caused the infant to have seizures and a high fever. Police said they didn't know why Martines gave her daughter salt. 
  
 Arrest warrants alleged she went to the doctor in November and ignored the pediatrician's referral to another doctor and to an agency that helps babies who are slow to develop because the infant was not gaining weight. 
  
 Deputies say the baby's twin sister and second sibling are in protective custody. 
  
 Martines faces up to 20 years in prison if convicted. It wasn't known if she had a lawyer. ||||| The mother accused of fatally poisoning her 17-month-old child said she fed the child salt to get her husband back into her life, according to Solicitor Barry Barnette. 
  
 The child was pronounced brain dead on Tuesday and died Wednesday afternoon, Coroner Rusty Clevenger said. 
  
 Medical personnel at Spartanburg Medical Center called the Sheriff’s Office Sunday morning about the toddler. 
  
 The medical staff told investigators on Monday that the child was diagnosed with an acute case of salt poisoning. 
  
 Too much sodium in the bloodstream, or salt poisoning, is called hypernatremia. Sodium is found in table salt, rock salt, pickling salt, and sea salt. Soy sauce contains high levels of sodium. Sodium is essential to human health, but too much sodium is poisonous. 
  
 Hypernatremia causes water to rush out of cells. Loss of fluid from cells causes damage, especially to brain cells. As the cells shrink, they are torn out of their normal locations. Torn blood vessels and fluid buildup can cause seizures, fluid in the lungs and kidney damage. 
  
 Sodium poisoning can cause seizures, coma and death. 
  
 The child’s mother, Kimberly Nicole Martines, 23, was interviewed by special victims unit investigators Monday and Tuesday, and she confessed to feeding the victim a teaspoon of salt, deputies said. 
  
 Investigators said that in November 2015, the child's pediatrician told Martines that he was concerned about the baby's lack of weight gain and developmental delays. The pediatrician referred Martines to a specialist, but she canceled the appointment. 
  
 After consultation with the Solicitor’s Office, Martines was charged with felony child abuse. Due to the child's death on Wednesday, the solicitor decided to charge Martines with homicide by child abuse. 
  
 In court, Barnette told the judge that Martines said she gave the child the salt to get her husband, the child's father, to take her back. 
  
 "She was a great mother. She would've never done anything to hurt her kids at all," Martines' sister, Tiffany Lazar, told WYFF News 4's Mike McCormick after the bond hearing. "There's a lot more that went on than people understand. No one should judge her at all, and there's nothing in this world that would make her hurt her babies." 
  
 The toddler’s twin sister and an older sibling have both been placed into protective custody with the Department of Social Services. 
  
 The judge at the detention center was not able to set bond due to the severity of the charge. A circuit court judge will have to make a ruling on bond at a later date. ||||| A woman is in custody after deputies said an Upstate baby died from acute salt poisoning. 
  
 According to the Spartanburg County Sheriff's Office, the Special Victims Unit was called to Spartanburg Regional Medical Center on Saturday due to a 17-month-old baby girl suffering from seizures. 
  
 The baby, Peyton Martines, was reportedly diagnosed with an acute case of salt poisoning and was unresponsive on life support, before being taken off life support and passing away at 1:40 p.m. Wednesday. 
  
 Deputies said the child's mother, 23-year-old Kimberly Nicole Martines of Fingerville, admitted to feeding the baby a teaspoon of salt. 
  
 According to the incident report, Martines was referred to a GI doctor in November 2015 due to the baby's poor weight gain and developmental delays. 
  
 Martines' charged were upgraded to homicide by child abuse. 
  
 Solicitor Barry Barnette reported Martines said she poisoned the baby to "get her husband back into her life." Martines and her husband are separated. 
  
 According to deputies, the toddler's twin sister and a second sibling are now in protective custody. 
  
 The family of Peyton Martines gave a statement, fondly remembering the toddler: 
  
 "Peyton was the most beautiful, happiest, loving baby ever. She never cried and was a silly baby making everyone laugh. You could not help but smile when you was around her. She was a little diva who loved her nails done and her favorite thing ever was Minnie Mouse...Her presence will always be with us..." -Debbie Martines Cates 
  
 Copyright 2016 FOX Carolina (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved. The Associated Press contributed to this report. |||||