Chances were at a premium until Wright guided a looping header back across goal and over debutant keeper Marek Rodak from Danny O'Shaughnessy's chipped ball 10 minutes into the second half.
From there, it all fell apart for Stanley. Unmarked defender Mark Hughes hit the Cheltenham crossbar from six yards with the goal gaping before midfielder Scott Brown was harshly sent off for halting the run of Billy Waters on the halfway line.
Substitute Shay McCartan skied a close-range effort for the 10 men and within seven minutes, a blunder at the back made the game safe for the Robins.
James Rowe's raking pass found Waters on the right and his cross was passed back into the arms of Rodak by Accrington defender Omar Beckles to concede a close-range free-kick. Despite Stanley packing the goalmouth, Carl Winchester touched the ball to Diego De Girolamo to drill home from six yards.
Waters then nudged Rowe's floated ball past the advancing Rodak to seal the points with 12 minutes to play.
Report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Cheltenham Town 3, Accrington Stanley 0.
Second Half ends, Cheltenham Town 3, Accrington Stanley 0.
Attempt saved. Daniel Wright (Cheltenham Town) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Terry Gornell (Accrington Stanley) is shown the yellow card.
Janoi Donacien (Accrington Stanley) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Alex Pike (Cheltenham Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Janoi Donacien (Accrington Stanley).
Attempt missed. Daniel Wright (Cheltenham Town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt saved. Matty Pearson (Accrington Stanley) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Foul by Daniel O'Shaughnessy (Cheltenham Town).
Shay McCartan (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Daniel Wright (Cheltenham Town).
Sean McConville (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Matty Pearson (Accrington Stanley) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Janoi Donacien (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by James Dayton (Cheltenham Town).
Substitution, Cheltenham Town. James Dayton replaces Diego De Girolamo.
Substitution, Cheltenham Town. Jack Munns replaces James Rowe.
Substitution, Cheltenham Town. Kyle Storer replaces Carl Winchester.
Goal!  Cheltenham Town 3, Accrington Stanley 0. Billy Waters (Cheltenham Town) header from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by James Rowe with a cross.
Substitution, Accrington Stanley. Terry Gornell replaces Jordan Clark.
Goal!  Cheltenham Town 2, Accrington Stanley 0. Diego De Girolamo (Cheltenham Town) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Carl Winchester following a set piece situation.
Mark Hughes (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Diego De Girolamo (Cheltenham Town).
Attempt missed. Shay McCartan (Accrington Stanley) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt saved. Billy Waters (Cheltenham Town) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Scott Brown (Accrington Stanley) is shown the red card.
Foul by Scott Brown (Accrington Stanley).
Billy Waters (Cheltenham Town) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Substitution, Accrington Stanley. Shay McCartan replaces Jonathan Edwards.
Corner,  Accrington Stanley. Conceded by William Boyle.
Corner,  Accrington Stanley. Conceded by William Boyle.
Mark Hughes (Accrington Stanley) hits the bar with a header from the centre of the box following a set piece situation.
Jonathan Edwards (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Carl Winchester (Cheltenham Town).
Goal!  Cheltenham Town 1, Accrington Stanley 0. Daniel Wright (Cheltenham Town) header from the centre of the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Daniel O'Shaughnessy.
Attempt missed. Omar Beckles (Accrington Stanley) header from the centre of the box is too high following a set piece situation.
Billy Kee (Accrington Stanley) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by William Boyle (Cheltenham Town).
Attempt blocked. Jordan Clark (Accrington Stanley) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.