Doing dishes the old-fashioned way — by hand — might help curb a modern-day problem: rising rates of childhood allergies, a new study suggests. 
  
 Researchers in Sweden found that children living in families that hand-washed their dishes were about 40 percent less likely to develop allergies compared with kids in homes that used a dishwasher, said study researcher Dr. Bill Hesselmar, an allergist at the University of Gothenburg Department of Pediatrics. 
  
 The researchers said they suspect that hand-washing dishes doesn't get them as clean as the dishwasher does, which is actually a good thing because it can help protect against allergies by exposing family members to more bacteria. 
  
 Under an idea known as the "hygiene hypothesis," some health researchers think that increased exposure to microbes during early life may stimulate children's immune systems, and that this stimulation may help reduce the risk that a child will develop allergies, the researchers wrote in their study, published online today (Feb. 23) in the journal Pediatrics. 
  
 Hand dishwashing is associated with other lifestyle factors that may also cause increased microbial exposure, Hesselmar told Live Science. For example, other studies have suggested that lower income levels, living in more crowded situations and immigration status are all linked with a reduced risk of allergies, and these three factors may also be associated with dishwashing practices. The researchers took these lifestyle factors into account in their analysis. 
  
 Although Hesselmar said the new findings were an "interesting observation," he said it is too soon to recommend hand-washing dishes as an allergy-prevention strategy. 
  
 Early exposures 
  
 In previous studies, living on a farm during early life, having many older siblings, growing up in developing countries and being born by vaginal delivery have all been linked with fewer allergies in children. But in the new study, the researchers wanted to investigate the factors in people's current daily lives that might have an impact on rising rates of childhood allergies. [9 Weirdest Allergies] 
  
 They analyzed data from more than 1,000 children living in two regions of Sweden. Parents completed questionnaires asking whether their 7- and 8-year-old children had eczema, asthma or seasonal allergies. Parents also were asked about their typical dishwashing practices, as well as how frequently their child ate fermented foods or farm-fresh foods, which have higher bacterial content than other foods. 
  
 Among the kids whose parents hand-washed dishes, allergy rates were even lower among the those who also ate more foods that were fermented or came directly from farms, according to the study. 
  
 These results held true even after the researchers took into account parents' allergy histories, whether a child attended day care and whether they were around pets as an infant — three factors that can also influence a child's risk of allergic diseases. 
  
 Two physicians at the University of California, San Francisco who wrote a commentary accompanying the study, said the results are interesting but that it's too soon to put them into practical use. 
  
 They noted that one of the drawbacks of the findings is that, according to the hygiene hypothesis, early-life exposures to bacteria and germs would have the greatest effect on the immune system to prevent allergic conditions when they occur before 6 months of age. A six-month-old infant would have limited exposure to hand-washed dishes and utensils, especially if breast-fed. 
  
 The commentary concluded that more research is needed to understand how different lifestyle choices, such as dishwasher usage and microbial exposure in children, may influence allergic disease and prevention strategies. 
  
 Follow Live Science @livescience, Facebook & Google+. Originally published on Live Science. ||||| Your Health 
  
 Kids, Allergies And A Possible Downside To Squeaky Clean Dishes 
  
 i Vidhya Nagarajan for NPR Vidhya Nagarajan for NPR 
  
 Could using a dishwashing machine increase the chances your child will develop allergies? That's what some provocative new research suggests — but don't tear out your machine just yet. 
  
 The study involved 1,029 Swedish children (ages 7 or 8) and found that those whose parents said they mostly wash the family's dishes by hand were significantly less likely to develop eczema, and somewhat less likely to develop allergic asthma and hay fever. 
  
 "I think it is very interesting that with a very common lifestyle factor like dishwashing, we could see effects on allergy development," says Dr. Bill Hesselmar of Sweden's University of Gothenburg, who led the study. 
  
 The findings are the latest to support the "hygiene hypothesis," a still-evolving proposition that's been gaining momentum in recent years. The hypothesis basically suggests that people in developed countries are growing up way too clean because of a variety of trends, including the use of hand sanitizers and detergents, and spending too little time around animals. 
  
 As a result, children don't tend to be exposed to as many bacteria and other microorganisms, and maybe that deprives their immune system of the chance to be trained to recognize microbial friend from foe. 
  
 That may make the immune system more likely to misfire and overreact in a way that leads to allergies, eczema and asthma, Hesselmar says. 
  
 He and his colleagues have been trying to figure out some of the simple day-to-day ways we might be too clean. A previous study examined how parents cleaned off their children's pacifiers. In their latest research, the researchers took a look at how people wash their dishes. 
  
 "The hypothesis was that these different dishwashing methods ... are not equally good in reducing bacteria from eating utensils and so on," Hesselmar says. "So we thought that perhaps hand dishwashing was less effective, so that you are exposed to more bacteria" in a way that's helpful. 
  
 In a study released Monday in the online version of the journal Pediatrics, the researchers report what they found: In families who said they mostly wash dishes by hand, significantly fewer children had eczema, and somewhat fewer had either asthma or hay fever, compared to kids from families who let machines wash their dishes. 
  
 Other researchers say the new study may be onto something, though it's still too soon to tell. 
  
 "I think it's very intriguing and lends one more 'X' on the column for the hygiene hypothesis," says Dr. Todd Mahr, an allergist at the Gundersen Health System in La Crosse, Wis., and a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics. 
  
 Still, there are other possible explanations, Hesselmar and Mahr both caution. Though the researchers took economic status into account in the study, it could be that people who don't have dishwashers are alike in some other way that reduces their tendency to get allergies. 
  
 Interestingly, for example, certain other lifestyle characteristics — eating fermented foods regularly, and tending to buy some foods straight from the farm — seemed to strengthen the "protective" effect in families without dishwashers. 
  
 The doctors say they're not ready to recommend that parents stop using the machines. 
  
 "If you're looking at, 'We have only a certain amount of money, and we're looking at buying a dishwasher or spending it on something else,' this might give you an argument to say: 'Well, maybe spend it on something else,' " Mahr says. 
  
 But, he adds, "I'm not convinced it's going to make that big a difference." |||||