TAINAN, Taiwan Rescuers pulled two survivors from the rubble of a Taiwan apartment block on Monday more than 48 hours after it was toppled by an earthquake, but the mayor of the southern city of Tainan warned the death toll was likely to exceed 100. 
  
 The official death toll from the quake rose to 38, with more than 100 people missing. 
  
 The quake struck at about 4 a.m. on Saturday (2000 GMT Friday) at the beginning of the Lunar New Year holiday, with almost all the dead found in the toppled Wei-guan Golden Dragon Building in Tainan. 
  
 Rescue efforts are focused on the wreckage of the 17-storey building, where 117 people are listed as missing and are suspected to be buried deep under the rubble. 
  
 Wang Ting-yu, a legislator who represents the area, told reporters that a woman, identified as Tsao Wei-ling, was found lying under her dead husband. Their 2-year-old son, who was also killed, was found lying nearby. 
  
 Another survivor, a man named Li Tsung-tian, was pulled out later on Monday, with Taiwan television stations showing live images of the rescues. Several hours later, Li's girlfriend was found dead in the rubble. 
  
 Tainan Mayor William Lai said during a visit to a funeral home that rescue efforts had entered what he called the "third stage". 
  
 "There are more fatalities than those pulled out (alive), and the number of fatalities will probably exceed 100," Lai said in comments carried on the United Daily News website. 
  
 Rescuers continued to scramble over the twisted wreckage of the building as numbed family members stood around, waiting for news of missing relatives. 
  
 Lin Tong-meng said he had been waiting at the site for word of his 11- and 12-year-old nephews. 
  
 "I came back and forth all yesterday and now I'm here again," Lin said. The boy's mother and father were rescued soon after the quake. Their father also stood nearby, pacing close to the rubble in tears. 
  
 Taiwan's government said in a statement 36 of the 38 dead were from the Wei-guan building, which was built in 1994. 
  
 President-elect Tsai Ing-wen, who won election last month, said there needed to be a "general sorting out" of old buildings to make sure they were able to cope with disasters like earthquakes. 
  
 "There needs to be a continued strengthening of their ability to deal with disasters," she said. 
  
 Outgoing President Ma Ying-jeou, speaking to reporters at a Tainan hospital, said the government needed to be a better job in ensuring building quality. 
  
 "In the near future, regarding building management, we will have some further improvements. We will definitely do this work well," Ma said. 
  
 Reuters witnesses at the scene of the collapse saw large rectangular, commercial cans of cooking-oil packed inside wall cavities exposed by the damage, apparently having been used as building material. 
  
 Chinese President Xi Jinping also conveyed condolences to the victims, state news agency Xinhua reported late on Sunday, and repeated Beijing's offer to provide help. 
  
 China views self-ruled Taiwan as a wayward province, to be bought under its control by force if necessary. 
  
 (Additional reporting by Faith Hung in TAIPEI and Megha Rajagopalan in BEIJING; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Paul Tait and Nick Macfie) ||||| Army soldiers guard the rescue staging area around a collapsed building complex in Tainan, Taiwan, Monday, Feb. 8, 2016. More than 100 people are believed to be still buried in the collapsed building... (Associated Press) 
  
 TAINAN, Taiwan (AP) — At least four people, including an 8-year-old girl, were rescued Monday from a high-rise Taiwanese apartment building toppled by a powerful quake two days earlier, as frustration grew among families waiting for searchers to reach their buried loved ones. 
  
 More than 100 people are believed to still be under the debris in a disaster that struck during the most important family holiday in the Chinese calendar — the Lunar New Year. 
  
 Saturday's quake killed at least 38 people in Tainan city in southern Taiwan, all but two of them in the collapse of the 17-story building. Even though the 6.4-magnitude quake was shallow, few buildings were reported to have been damaged, which experts said was because Taiwan's building standards are high. 
  
 Authorities have managed to rescue more than 170 people — the vast majority in the immediate hours after the quake — from the folded building using information about the building layout and the possible location of those trapped. 
  
 Five survivors were believed to have been pulled out on Sunday, and at least four on Monday. One of them, Tsao Wei-ling, called out "Here I am" as rescuers dug through to find her, Taiwan's Eastern Broadcasting Corp. reported. 
  
 She was found under the body of her husband, who had shielded her from a collapsed beam, the government-run Central News Agency reported. Tsao's husband and 2-year-son were found dead, and five other members of the family remained unaccounted for, it said. 
  
 Teams also rescued on Monday a 42-year-old man from the building, and, later, an 8-year-old girl, who had been trapped for more than 61 hours. 
  
 Mayor Lai Ching-Te told reporters he briefly exchanged words with the girl, Lin Su-chin. 
  
 "She is awake, but looks dehydrated, lost some temperature but she's awake and her blood pressure is OK," he said. "I asked her if there's anything wrong with her body. She shook her head." 
  
 Shortly afterward, rescue workers also pulled out a 28-year-old Vietnamese woman, identified as Chen Mei-jih, who had been trapped on what was the building's fifth floor. 
  
 Family members of the missing flooded into the information center in search of their loved ones or to wait anxiously. 
  
 Tensions rose as some relatives, losing patience, demanded to speak to rescue workers directly to get the latest information. 
  
 A couple sitting in a small room where officials release information said they had heard no news about their son and his family, including their young grandsons. 
  
 "Does that mean we are here to wait for bodies?" grandfather Liu Meng-hsun cried out angrily. 
  
 Outside, a woman stood at the edge of the rubble shouting, "Your grandma is here!" Rescuers had detected life within the area where the 16th-floor apartment of her son and his family was thought to be, and were said to have heard the sound of a child. 
  
 Her son, surnamed Wu, got out of the building soon after the quake, but his wife and their 4-year-old girl remained trapped, according to volunteers assisting the family. 
  
 Earthquakes rattle Taiwan frequently. Most are minor and cause little or no damage, though a magnitude-7.6 quake in central Taiwan in 1999 killed more than 2,300 people. 
  
 The spectacular fall of the high-rise, built in 1989, raised questions about whether its construction had been shoddy. The government says it will investigate whether the developer cut corners. 
  
 Huang Jia-rui, a structural engineer in Tainan, said Taiwan's buildings aren't as quake-proof as Japan's, which is a leader in engineering quake-proof structures, but the island is catching up. 
  
 The extended Lunar New Year holiday officially started Monday, but celebrations were subdued and both President Ma Ying-jeou and President-elect Tsai Ing-wen canceled the traditional handing out of envelopes of cash in their hometowns. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writer Louise Watt and news assistant Henry Hou in Beijing, and Christopher Bodeen in Qingdao, China, contributed to this report. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. |||||