Dozens of people connected to the Outlaws motorcycle gang were arrested during early-morning raids Wednesday that federal prosecutors said were aimed at dismantling a criminal organization where violence was part of doing business. 
  
 FBI task force raids the Outlaws MC Fort Wayne Chapter at the 1200 block of West Main Street in Fort Wayne, Ind., early Wednesday, July 11, 2012. More than 300 federal and local law enforcement officers... (Associated Press) 
  
 The Outlaws Motor Club Sign is removed from the building Wednesday, July 11, 2012 after a raid on the club by FBI Task Force at the 1200 block of West Main Street. More than 300 federal and local law... (Associated Press) 
  
 The busted in door after the FBI Task Force raided the Outlaws Motor Cycle Club early Wednesday morning at the 1200 block of West Main Street in Fort Wayne, Ind., early Wednesday, July 11, 2012. More... (Associated Press) 
  
 Terrell Adams is seen in an undated photo provided by the U.S. Attorney's Office in Indianapolis. U.S. Attorney Joe Hogsett says authorities are seeking 28-year-old Terrell Adams on narcotics violations.... (Associated Press) 
  
 An indictment unsealed Wednesday shows that 42 people _ from alleged gang members to a millionaire CEO _ are facing a wide-range of charges that include drug trafficking, extortion, money laundering, witness tampering and illegal gambling. The charges, which come after a more than year-long investigation, were filed in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis. 
  
 "All kinds of people from different walks of life are involved in criminal activity," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Brad Blackington, the lead prosecutor in the case. 
  
 Every member of the Outlaws Indianapolis chapter is currently in custody, along with several gang associates, Blackington said. Members of the motorcycle group's chapters in Ohio and Illinois also were arrested, U.S Attorney Joe Hogsett said during a news conference in Indianapolis to announce the arrests. 
  
 Only one of the suspects remained at large Wednesday following the raids in several Indiana cities and towns that involved more than 300 officers from federal, state and local agencies. The raids netted about 35 guns including several assault rifles, about $14,000 in cash and more than a dozen motorcycles, Hogsett said. 
  
 No contact information is on the Outlaws' website, and phone messages left by The Associated Press for some people named in the indictment weren't returned. A spokesman for the Marion County jail in Indianapolis, where all the suspects were taken, said it wasn't clear if any had attorneys. Court documents didn't include attorney information. 
  
 Investigators said the gang's criminal operations included using violence to collect on debts, insurance fraud schemes and running illegal gambling. The 70-page indictment also alleges the gang trafficked drugs, including cocaine and prescription painkillers. 
  
 Joshua N. Bowser, the first suspect named in the indictment and among those facing the most charges, was described by authorities as the gang's enforcer. Among other things, he is accused of conspiring with businessman Charles N. Ernstes II, who Blackington described as "a millionaire CEO," to extort money from a person who declared bankruptcy after Ernstes gave him a loan. Ernstes also is charged. 
  
 Ernstes' attorney, Michael Allen, issued a statement saying his client pleaded not guilty "and will vigorously defend himself in court." 
  
 There was no home phone number listed for Bowser and authorities didn't know if he had an attorney. 
  
 Another suspect is a hospital employee accused of being involved in trafficking prescription drugs, investigators said. The suspect still at large, 28-year-old Terrell Adams, is being sought on drug charges and isn't an Outlaws member, prosecutors said. 
  
 Investigators used a variety of ways to infiltrate the gang, including wiretaps, drug buys and an undercover agent who posed as an extortion victim, Blackington said. 
  
 "Basically, the FBI and other law enforcement agencies threw the kitchen sink at these folks," he said. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Follow Charles Wilson on Twitter: https://twitter.com/CharlesDWilson ||||| The brown house at 2204 E. New York St. now sits empty. In a Wednesday morning raid, the FBI stripped it of its contents: pool tables, signs with skulls and, most notably, the bikers who are members of a national motorcycle gang. The only thing left was a barricade of yellow crime tape. Forty-two people associated with the Indianapolis chapter of the Outlaws Motorcycle Club have been charged with 37 counts of federal crimes. All but one Wednesday were in the Marion County Jail. Prosecutors said that if convicted, they could be sentenced to decades in prison. U.S. Attorney Joe Hogsett touted the arrests as the largest organized crime prosecution federal prosecutors have ever pursued in Indianapolis. The gang’s crimes, authorities said, ranged from hiding one another’s cars so they could collect insurance on the “stolen” vehicles to threatening to make people “disappear” if they didn’t pay their debts to others. Their reputation on New York Street was just as varied. Some neighbors said they kept the neighborhood safe; others said they were bullies. But Hogsett said during a news conference Wednesday that the city’s streets are much safer without the Outlaws. “This indictment describes a dangerous criminal operation that was as well-layered and sophisticated as most businesses in this city,” Hogsett said in a statement. “Today’s announcement serves as a warning that we as a city will not accept this kind of behavior on our streets — not now, not ever.” Some of the Outlaws have been arrested in the past, but Hogsett said he was unsure why no one previously tried to dismantle the organization, which has been around for decades and made no secret about its ties to criminal activity. The club displayed signs that said it was part of the “1 percent,” a term that means it’s among the small portion of motorcycle clubs that don’t abide by the law. Bob Hammerle, an Indianapolis attorney who represented several Outlaws from the 1970s to the 1980s, likened the group to the Hole in the Wall Gang from the classic western “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,” except, he said, the gang members “are not as attractive as Paul Newman and Robert Redford,” who played the lead roles in the movie. 
  
 (Page 2 of 3) 
  
 “They were almost like old cowboys,” Hammerle said. “They were making their living off of whatever miscreant deeds they were involved in at that particular time.” Police have raided the clubhouse before. The city paid the Outlaws $112,000 in 1996 for a botched raid of the clubhouse five years before. A Marion County judge called it a “fiasco.” Police used stun grenades, plastic bullets and a pickup truck to smash through the headquarters looking for drugs. They said they expected at least 20 armed gang members, but only three members were inside. Two chained dogs were shot and killed, and all three Outlaws were injured. No drugs were found. The current federal investigation began in 2009, but Hogsett and others declined to say what triggered it. The FBI used informants, as well as undercover agents and wiretaps, to gather information about the group, said Brad Blackington, the lead prosecutor on the case. Authorities said the gang’s offenses included drug dealing and running an illegal gambling operation that trafficked thousands of dollars every day, as well as other crimes such as fraud. In 2010, gang members paid someone to drive a U-Haul truck into the back of a vehicle carrying several gang members, a news release from Hogsett’s office said. The gang members then filed insurance claims for thousands of dollars. And the activities sometimes included people outside the gang. According to a 70-page indictment that lists those who were charged and their alleged crimes, an Indiana University Medical Center employee helped an Outlaws member obtain prescription medications so he could sell them. And an Indianapolis business owner hired one of the Outlaws to attack someone who owed him money, the indictment said. Authorities seized 35 guns, including some assault rifles; $14,000; various drugs, including a kilogram of cocaine; and cars and motorcycles throughout the investigation and during Wednesday’s raid. They are still trying to find one of the Outlaws, 28-year-old Terrell Lamont Adams. |||||