For Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the decision to reregister her party and compete in elections in the military-backed system represents a historic shift. Known globally as a symbol of endurance in the face of dictatorship, she has spent most of her 23 years in politics battling the country’s generals, much of that time in prison or under house arrest. Now she is joining the system they created. 
  
 The civilian government that took power in March is dominated by former generals, including President Thein Sein. It has sought to liberalize Myanmar’s moribund economy and pushed the country toward a more open political system, wooing Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi in a carefully choreographed rapprochement. 
  
 In announcing Mrs. Clinton’s plans to visit, Mr. Obama cited “flickers of progress” in the country. The United States, he said, remains concerned about human rights abuses, the persecution of democratic reformers and brutality toward ethnic minorities. 
  
 Photo 
  
 But he hailed policies by Mr. Thein Sein as leading the country “on the path toward reform.” He cited the government’s cooperation with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the release of political prisoners and the relaxation of media restrictions. “These are the most important steps toward reform in Burma that we’ve seen in years,” Mr. Obama said. 
  
 The subtext is that Myanmar has unexpectedly become a kind of diplomatic prize for the United States, which is eager to show its traditional allies in Asia, including Japan , South Korea , Australia, the Philippines and Thailand , that it is no longer distracted by the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and that it is advancing democratic interests, promoting free-market economic reform and counterbalancing the power of authoritarian China. 
  
 While Mr. Obama traveled to Australia to seal an arrangement to base Marines there, Mrs. Clinton signed a declaration with the Philippines on the deck of an American destroyer that called for disputes over maritime claims in the South China Sea to be settled through a “multilateral” process — something China has flatly rejected and a term the United States avoided when it first waded into the South China Sea dispute in July 2010. 
  
 She also somewhat provocatively referred to the South China Sea as the West Philippine Sea, a term preferred in the Philippines but reviled in Beijing. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Such moves, added together, may prompt broader alarm in China. “With their mind-set, whatever you do, it may be considered part of a conspiracy,” said Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution . 
  
 Some China watchers say the American moves may feed suspicions in China that the United States is seeking to encircle it because it is uneasy with having an economic and military rival. 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 Indeed, China’s prime minister, Wen Jiabao , warned the United States on Friday to steer clear of territorial disputes between China and its neighbors, saying they ought to be resolved directly “through friendly consultations.” And the Chinese Foreign Ministry expressed concern about the political changes in Myanmar, saying it hoped they would not destabilize the country. 
  
 In September, China aimed its anger at Myanmar after it suspended a Chinese-led project to build a hydroelectric dam in northern Myanmar, creating a rare rift between the countries. 
  
 This tension helps explain Myanmar’s openness to dealing with the United States, which was itself eager to expand its presence in the region — as Mrs. Clinton articulated in an article published this month in Foreign Policy magazine titled “America’s Pacific Century.” 
  
 Video 
  
 “As the war in Iraq winds down and America begins to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan, the United States stands at a pivot point,” Mrs. Clinton wrote in the article. The United States should resist the temptation of downsizing its “foreign engagement” after the wars, she said, because engagement in Asia “is critical to America’s future.” 
  
 Administration officials say they are trying to bring China into the club of responsible great powers. Mrs. Clinton; Thomas E. Donilon , the national security adviser; and others have labored, with mixed results, to enlist China in problems like climate change , global economic imbalances and renegade nuclear programs in Iran and North Korea . 
  
 But progress is halting, officials admit. A senior administration official described China as a “peculiar adolescent that can no longer hide behind its status as a developing nation, but does not see itself with the full responsibility of a global power.” 
  
 Closer ties to the United States would bring Myanmar full circle to its years immediately after independence from Britain in 1948. At the time Myanmar sought close ties with the West to balance relations with China, said Thant Myint-U, a historian and former United Nations official. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 In recent years, China has become one of Myanmar’s largest trade partners, lured by bountiful natural resources. Myanmar has relied on China for much-needed investment , partly to mitigate the effects of Western sanctions. 
  
 Yet anti-Chinese sentiment has flared up periodically in Myanmar’s history, and observers said resentment at China’s plans to consume nearly all of the power from the halted dam was one reason the plan was so unpopular. 
  
 Aung Din, the executive director of the U.S. Campaign for Burma, a pressure group that supports Myanmar’s democracy movement, says he saw the seeds of backlash against Chinese interests in Myanmar. “Many projects are carried out by Chinese companies; prominent businessmen are Chinese; everything belongs to China, actually,” he said. “If we don’t take any action, Burma will become a satellite state of China.” 
  
 Mrs. Clinton’s visit, he said, might encourage the Burmese government and people “to confront Chinese interests.” ||||| Detecting "flickers of progress" in the long shunned and sanctioned nation of Myanmar, President Barack Obama announced Friday that he will send Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to the repressed country next month, the first official in her position to visit in more than 50 years. 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama, right, is greeted by Indonesian Ambassador to the United States Dino Patti Djalal as he arrives at Denpasar International Airport to attend the ASEAN and East Asia Summit... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama speaks after announcing a commercial deal between Boeing and Indonesia's Lion Air at a signing ceremony in Nusa Dua, on the island of Bali, Indonesia, Friday, Nov. 18, 2011.... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama meets with Philippines President Benigno Aquino III on the sidelines of the ASEAN and East Asia summit in Nusa Dua, on the island of Bali, Indonesia, Friday, Nov. 18, 2011.... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama arrives at Denpasar International Airport to attend the ASEAN and East Asia Summit in Denpasar, on the island of Bali, Indonesia, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2011. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila) (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama stands at right as and Boeing Senior Vice President Ray Conner, center, and Lion Air CEO Rusdi Kirana announce a commercial deal at a signing ceremony in Nusa Dua, on the island... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama is greeted by Ngurah Rai Air Force Base Commander Lt. Col. Jumarto as he steps off Air Force One at Denpasar International Airport in Denpasar, on the island of Bali, Indonesia,... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton listens as President Barack Obama announces that she will travel to Myanmar, on the sidelines of the ASEAN and East Asia summit in Nusa Dua, on the island... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama meets with India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the sidelines of the ASEAN and East Asia summit in Nusa Dua, on the island of Bali, Indonesia, Friday, Nov. 18, 2011. (AP... (Associated Press) 
  
 "We want to seize what could be an historic opportunity for progress and make it clear that if Burma continues to travel down the road of democratic reform, it can forge a new relationship with the United States of America," Obama said Friday during his diplomatic mission to southeast Asia. 
  
 In exploring a breakthrough engagement with Myanmar, also known as Burma, the president first sought assurances of support from democracy leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. She spent 15 years on house arrest by the nation's former military dictators but is now in talks with the new civilian government about reforming the country. 
  
 The two spoke by phone on Thursday night while Obama was flying to Bali on Air Force One. 
  
 By sending in his chief diplomat, Obama's is out to acknowledge and accelerate fledgling reforms in Myanmar, a calculated political risk in a place where repression is still common. He warned that if the country fails to commit to a true opening of its society, "it will continue to face sanctions and isolation." 
  
 Obama said that the current environment is a rare opening that could help millions of people "and that possibility is too important to ignore." 
  
 "The visit clearly demonstrates that United States is stepping up its engagement policy," said Aung Thein, a prominent lawyer and a member of Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party. "It is better to see Myanmar's political situation on the ground rather than watch from a distance, We welcome the visit." 
  
 The administration sees Clinton's visit as a sign of success for Obama's policy on Myanmar, which was outlined in 2009 and focused on punishments and incentives to get the country's former military rulers to improve dire human rights conditions. The U.S. imposed new sanctions on Myanmar but made clear it was open to better relations if the situation changed. 
  
 Now Myanmar's nominally civilian government, which took power in March, has declared its intention to liberalize the hard-line policies of the junta that preceded it. It has taken some fledgling steps, such as easing censorship, legalizing labor unions, suspending an unpopular, China-backed dam project and working with Suu Kyi. 
  
 "After years of darkness, we've seen flickers of progress in these last several weeks," Obama declared Friday. 
  
 Officials said Clinton would travel to Myanmar Dec. 1. 
  
 The move came as Obama deepened ties with Asia, appealing to nations large and small for help with the American security agenda. Nearing the end of a nine-day trip across the Pacific, Obama was trying to prod for some progress over the hotly contested South China Sea, one of the most vital shipping channels in the world. 
  
 It also came as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations decided that Myanmar would chair the regional bloc in 2014, a significant perch that Myanmar was forced to skip in 2006 because of intense criticism of its rights record. 
  
 A U.S. opening with Myanmar would also contribute to Obama's rebalancing goals, as Burma's military leaders for long had close ties to China. 
  
 Beijing has poured billions of dollars of investment into Myanmar to operate mines, extract timber and build oil and gas pipelines. China has also been a staunch supporter of the country's politically isolated government and is Myanmar's second-biggest trading partner after Thailand. 
  
 Senior administration officials, briefing reporters Friday, stressed that the new engagement with Myanmar was not about China. They said the Obama administration consulted with China about the move and said they expected China to be supportive. They argued that China in fact wants to see a stable Burma on its borders, so that it doesn't risk problems with refugees or other results of political instability. 
  
 Human rights groups welcomed Obama's announcement as an opportunity to compel further reforms. 
  
 "We've been arguing a long time that political engagement and political pressure are not mutually exclusive," Benjamin Zawacki, Amnesty International's Southeast Asia researcher, told The Associated Press, adding that Clinton "should not miss the opportunity in this historic visit to pressure the government and speak very clearly that the human rights violations taking place there need to stop." 
  
 Elaine Pearson, the deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said the Burmese government must realize that a visit by Clinton "puts them on notice, not lets them off the hook for their continually atrocious human rights record." 
  
 Myanmar, a former breadbasket of Southeast Asia, has suffered not just repressive government but poor economic management during nearly 50 years of military rule. 
  
 It is subject to wide-ranging trade, economic and political sanctions from the U.S. and other Western nations, enforced in response to brutal crackdowns on pro-democracy protesters in 1988 and 2007 and its refusal to hand power to pro-democracy leader Suu Kyi's party after the 1990 elections. 
  
 Obama will see Burma's president during a summit of Southeast Asian nations. The two have met before, at an ASEAN meeting in Singapore, when Thein Sein was prime minister. 
  
 The announcement was the capstone to a day of diplomatic meetings on the sidelines of summits with Asian leaders, including India, Malaysia and the Philippines. Administration officials said Obama raised the issue of Myanmar in his meetings with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Philippine President Benigno Aquino III. Officials said they expected ASEAN members to be supportive. 
  
 Earlier, in a move promoting American trade, Obama presided over a deal that will send Boeing planes to an Indonesian company and create jobs back home, underscoring the value of the lucrative Asia-Pacific market to a president needing some good economic news. 
  
 Obama stood watch as executives of Boeing and Lion Air, a private carrier in Indonesia, signed a deal that amounts to Boeing's largest commercial plane order. Lion Air ordered 230 airplanes, and the White House said it would support tens of thousands of jobs in the U.S. 
  
 Obama arrived in this resort island late Thursday from Australia, where he announced a new military presence and sent Beijing a message that America "is all in" across the Asia-Pacific. The White House is determined to show that American leadership here, far from home, is wanted after a decade in which wars in Iraq and Afghanistan dominated attention. 
  
 Obama will attend a meeting with the heads of the Association of Southeast Asia Nations, or ASEAN, whose 10 members include host Indonesia, Vietnam, Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia. The group will expand for the East Asia Summit, a forum that also counts China, Japan, South Korea, India, Australia, New Zealand, Russia and the U.S. as members. 
  
 ____ 
  
 Associated Press writers Erica Werner in Bali, Aye Aye Win in Yangon and Alisa Tang in Bangkok contributed to this report. ||||| Myanmar's main opposition party led by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi decided Friday to rejoin politics and register for future elections, signaling its confidence in recent reforms by the military-aligned government. 
  
 Myanmar democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi arrives at her National League for Democracy (NLD) party's headquarters to attend a meeting on Friday, Nov. 18, 2011, in Yangon, Myanmar. Senior members of the... (Associated Press) 
  
 Myanmar democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi arrives at her National League for Democracy (NLD) party's headquarters to attend a meeting on Friday, Nov. 18, 2011, in Yangon, Myanmar. Senior members of the... (Associated Press) 
  
 Myanmar democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi, center, arrives at her National League for Democracy (NLD) party's headquarters to attend a meeting on Friday, Nov. 18, 2011, in Yangon, Myanmar. Senior members... (Associated Press) 
  
 The National League for Democracy party "has unanimously decided to re-register as a political party ... and will run in the elections," said a party statement issued at the end of a meeting of senior members from all across the country. 
  
 Some joyous members broke into a dance as the announcement was made. 
  
 Earlier, member after member, including Suu Kyi, spoke out in favor of joining the political arena because of reforms initiated by the nominally civilian, but military-aligned government, which have drawn cautious approval from even its most bitter critic, the United States. 
  
 President Barack Obama announced Friday that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would visit early next month _ the first such trip in more than a half-century _ after what he said were "flickers of progress" in Myanmar. 
  
 The NLD refused to register last year because of a restriction that would have prevented Suu Kyi from running. The restriction was lifted this year by the new government that took office following the November 2010 elections held by a long-ruling military junta as part of its promise to restore democracy and relinquish power. 
  
 "Personally I am for re-registration," Suu Kyi said in her speech to the delegates, gathered at the party headquarters in Yangon. 
  
 Any party that registers itself is required to run for at least three seats in the still-unscheduled by-elections for the 48 vacant seats in Parliament. The legislature comprises 224 members in the upper house and 440 members in the lower house. 
  
 "Instead of participating in three seats in the by-elections, I would prefer to take part in all 48 seats," Suu Kyi said. When that happens, it would be the first electoral test of NLD's popularity _ and that of Suu Kyi _ in more than two decades. 
  
 It is likely that Suu Kyi would run for office, said NLD spokesman Nyan Win. He said the party will file registration papers with the Election Commission in the capital, Naypyitaw, as soon "as soon possible." 
  
 The NLD's refusal to register last year was mainly because of an election law that required political parties to expel members who were incarcerated. The clause appeared to target Suu Kyi, who was then under house arrest by the military regime. The NLD subsequently boycotted the November 2010 elections. 
  
 However, Myanmar's new civilian government, headed by a former army officer and prime minister in the junta, has shown a willingness to deal with Suu Kyi. It also has lifted some restrictions on the Internet, legalized unions and scrapped an unpopular dam project. 
  
 Bringing Suu Kyi's party back into the fold would give the government greater legitimacy at home and abroad. 
  
 "The NLD has to re-register if the party wants to join the political arena. The political climate has changed compared to 2010 and we have to make a practical decision," said Aung Myo, an NLD member from Sagaing region. 
  
 The NLD overwhelmingly won a 1990 general election, but the ruling junta refused to honor the results. The military regime kept Suu Kyi under house arrest during different periods for a total of 15 years. She was freed just after the elections and is now free to move about and meet people. The government also continues to hold hundreds of political prisoners although there are moves to free many of them. |||||