After House Republicans released a proposal to transform the Affordable Care Act, members of their own party offered a mixture of support and suggestions for changes to the plan. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
  
 As the House of Representatives scrambles to salvage a vote now scheduled for Friday on a GOP Obamacare replacement plan, it still remains to be seen if Republicans have enough votes to pass it. 
  
 Assuming no Democrats support the measure, Republicans can lose two votes in the Senate and 22 votes in the House. 
  
 As of Thursday night, here’s how many Republicans have said that they’ll vote against it: 
  
 34 House members 
  
 6 senators 
  
 Other GOP lawmakers still have serious concerns about the legislation or said they are leaning against it. We count: 
  
 15 House members 
  
 16 senators 
  
 In recent days, nearly two dozen House members have indicated they’ll switch their vote from “lean no” to “yes” as they get affirmation from President Trump and House Republican leaders that there will be some big changes to the bill. That means a vote, now tentatively scheduled for Friday, could be much closer than our count suggests. 
  
 [If they can't do it now, Republicans can probably kiss health-care reform goodbye] 
  
 The Fix is keeping a list of Republicans who have opposed or expressed serious concerns about the legislation. If you have someone to add or a position to change, do let us know. 
  
 Opposed (34 House members, 6 senators) 
  
 THE 34 HOUSE MEMBERS OPPOSED: 
  
 1. Rep. Jim Jordan (Ohio): The replacement plan would amount to “subsidies for unaffordable health care, subsidies for unaffordable premiums — not just policies that Republicans had opposed, but policies voters would reject,” the co-founder of the House Freedom Caucus told The Post’s David Weigel. 
  
 2. Rep. Justin Amash (Mich.): Even after changes to the bill that satisfied other conservatives, he is still adamantly opposed to it. 
  
 Obamacare 2.0: Bad policy meet bad Republican politics meet bad Democratic politics. The elusive lose-lose-lose. — Justin Amash (@justinamash) March 20, 2017 
  
 3. Rep. Dave Brat (Va.): He voted against it in the House Budget Committee on March 16. “It’s going to be a federally run system, right? It's going to create a new entitlement program,” he told NPR's Rachel Martin. 
  
 4. Rep. Mo Brooks (Ala.): Even after changes were made satisfying other conservatives, he called this bill “the largest Republican welfare bill in the history of the Republican Party.” 
  
 5. Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (Idaho): “They sent me to Washington to get rid of Obamacare, and replace it with something that will, once and for all, create a health-care system that allows the market to deliver lower costs and focus on patients,” he told Idaho KTVB in a statement. “I have spent the last two days studying the American Health Care Act, and unfortunately, it is not that bill.” 
  
 6. Rep. Thomas Massie (Ky.): The bill is a “stinking pile of garbage” written by “the insurance lobby,” he told the Washington Examiner’s editorial board. 
  
 Sorry if I let you down. I'm changing my vote on #AHCA pic.twitter.com/JLUotqaO9L — Thomas Massie (@RepThomasMassie) March 22, 2017 
  
 7. Rep. Rob Wittman (Va.): “After reviewing this legislation and receiving the Congressional Budget Office score today, it is clear that this bill is not consistent with the repeal and replace principles for which I stand,” he wrote in a Facebook post. 
  
 8. Rep. Leonard Lance (N.J.): “I'm a no” he told reporters March 21 after meeting with the White House, ticking off a variety of concerns. 
  
 9. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (Fla.): “As written the plan leaves too many from my district uninsured,” she tweeted March 14, elaborating in a statement that too many will lose health insurance as a result, “and there will be less funds to help the poor and elderly with their health care.” 
  
 10. Rep. Warren Davidson (Ohio): “We haven't really done enough to drive down cost for consumers,” he told CNN on March 22, saying he's a “no” vote. 
  
 11. Rep. Andy Harris (Md.): He told Politico on March 21 he is a “hard no” barring any substantial changes. 
  
 12. Rep. Thomas Garrett (Va.): “Right now, I am a firm no,” he told CNN on March 14. 
  
 13. Rep. Mark Sanford (S.C.): “From a conservative’s perspective, there are a number of things that need further refinement,” he told CNN on March 7. He voted against the bill in the House Budget Committee. 
  
 14. Rep. Eric A. “Rick” Crawford (Ark.): “I can’t support the American Health Care Act,” he told the Arkansas Democrat Gazette on March 8, expressing concerns that its tax credits would “essentially create a new entitlement program.” 
  
 15. Rep. John Katko (N.Y.): “I’ve said I’ll never vote for a repeal until a replacement is ready to go,” he told Syracuse.com on March 20, telling KIRO 7 local news on March 21 he still opposes the bill. 
  
 16. Rep. Mark Meadows (N.C.), the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus has been steadfastly opposed to the bill-- and said he counted at least 25 members who share his opposition. 
  
 I remain a 'no' on the #AHCA -- the bill doesn't do what we promised on bringing down premiums for Americans. — Mark Meadows (@RepMarkMeadows) March 22, 2017 
  
 I'm still hopeful we can change the bill--I'll continue working around the clock to do so. But I cannot support the #AHCA as it stands. https://t.co/ntbFgggiPu — Mark Meadows (@RepMarkMeadows) March 22, 2017 
  
 The House Freedom Caucus still opposes the GOP replacement bill in its current form. — House Freedom Caucus (@freedomcaucus) March 17, 2017 
  
 17. Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (Pa.): “Although the American Health Care Act focuses on several much-needed reforms to our healthcare system, in its current form I cannot support this legislation,” he wrote on Facebook on March 18, citing its potential trims to opioid abuse prevention and treatment. 
  
 18. Rep. Ted Budd (N.C.): “As currently written, I cannot support the American Health Care Act,” he said in a statement dated March 21. “This bill leaves the structure of Obamacare in place and does not provide the relief that North Carolina families need from high premiums.” 
  
 19. Rep. Don Young (Alaska): He told the Alaska News Dispatch on March 20 he won’t vote for the bill in its current form, citing the financial burden Alaskans who buy health care on the exchanges: If it has “fair equitable treatment to Alaskans, I'll probably vote for the bill. But if it's not there, I'll probably vote against the bill, because it's really not the repeal of Obamacare as we originally said we were going to do.” 
  
 20. Rep. Rod Blum (Iowa): Here’s what he tweeted March 21: 
  
 #AHCA doesn't do enough to lower premiums for hardworking Americans. I'm a "no" on current version - need to drive down actual costs! #IA01 — Congressman Rod Blum (@RepRodBlum) March 21, 2017 
  
 21. Rep. Scott Perry (Pa.): “No,” he told constituents in a March 18 town hall. “I'm not happy with this bill.” 
  
 22. Rep. David Young (Iowa): “While the American Health Care Act, legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare, is a very good start, it does not yet get it right and therefore I cannot support it in its’ present form," he said March 22. 
  
 23. Rep. Frank A. LoBiondo (N.J.): “Under the current proposal, many South Jersey residents would be left with financial hardship or without the coverage they now receive. Our seniors on Medicare already struggle to make each dollar stretch," he said in a statement March 22. 
  
 Regrettably, current healthcare proposal falls far short & is not better for #SouthJersey. I will be voting no on American Health Care Act. — Frank LoBiondo (@RepLoBiondo) March 22, 2017 
  
 24. Rep. Daniel Donovan (N.Y.): Here's what he wrote in an op-ed for silive.com: "Of particular concern to me is a provision added only days before the vote that prohibits New York State from passing Medicaid costs down to county governments. The proposed amendment exempts New York City, putting an unfair and disproportionate burden on City residents to fund the entire state's share of the Medicaid bill. That's wrong. I cannot support a deal that gives our district short shrift." 
  
 25. Rep. Louie Gohmert (Tex.): "We promised a repeal of Obamacare," he told Fox Business on March 22. "What they're bringing up ... does not do that." 
  
 26. Rep. Walter B. Jones (N.C.): “They moved this thing too quickly," Jones told WNCT TV on March 21. "They should have waited a month or two and gone around this country with the right committees, with the right members of both parties." 
  
 27. Rep. Ted Yoho (Fla.): “President Trump can't vote for me. The people that sent me up here sent me up here to repeal and replace 100 percent the Affordable Care Act," he told NPR's Kelly McEvers on March 21. 
  
 28. Rep. Charlie Dent (Pa.): The influential moderate Republican told The Morning Call on March 22 he's a no: "I believe this bill, in its current form, will lead to the loss of coverage and make insurance unaffordable for too many Americans, particularly for low-to-moderate income and older individuals." 
  
 29. Rep. Chris Smith (N.J.): "The overriding concern I have is the Medicaid expansion being significantly altered," Smith told the Asbury Park Press on March 22. "It affects so many of our disabled individuals and families, and the working poor." 
  
 30. Rep. Bill Posey (Fla.): 90.7 WMFE reports March 22 he is a "no without changes." 
  
 31. Rep. Jody Hice (Ga.): The member of the House Freedom Caucus said the bill doesn't do enough to repeal Obamacare. "It doesn’t move it in the direction we said we would move it,” Hice told the Atlanta Journal Constitution on March 22. “This still is government-involved government healthcare. It’s an entitlement program. It is, in essence, a GOP version of Obamacare, and that’s not what we’ve been sent here to do.” 
  
 32. Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (Wash.): “I'm disappointed that it appears my amendment to strengthen the Medicaid safety net for the kids who depend on it for their health care will not be considered. ... In my final analysis, this bill falls short," she said in a statement March 23. 
  
 33. Rep. Andy Biggs (Ariz.): Here's what he tweeted March 23: 
  
 I appreciate President @realDonaldTrump's collaborative approach on repealing #Obamacare. I am a “no” vote on current draft of the #AHCA. — Rep Andy Biggs (@RepAndyBiggsAZ) March 23, 2017 
  
 34. Rep. Mark Amodei (Nev.): Amodei originally proposed three amendments to the bill that would pressure insurance companies to demonstrate any tax cuts they receive would lower premiums and to give rural residents a break on a surcharge if they buy insurance without previously having coverage. On March 23 he tweeted he's a "no": 
  
 We’ve done our homework. We’ve closed on the issue in preparation for a vote tonight. I’m a no on the #AHCA — RepMarkAmodei (@MarkAmodeiNV2) March 23, 2017 
  
 THE 6 SENATORS OPPOSED: 
  
 1. Sen. Rand Paul (Ky.) 
  
 The House leadership Obamacare Lite plan has many problems. We should be stopping mandates, taxes and entitlements not keeping them. — Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) March 7, 2017 
  
 2. Sen. Mike Lee (Utah): He explained why in a March 13 op-ed in the Daily Signal. 
  
 I promised the people of Utah I would do everything I can to repeal #Obamacare. The House bill does not do that. I am a no. #FullRepeal — Mike Lee (@SenMikeLee) March 21, 2017 
  
 3. Sen. Tom Cotton (Ark.): “I can tell you a number, if not a majority, of Republican senators think that this process has been too breakneck, too slapdash, and they do not see a good solution for the American people coming out of the House bill as drafted,” he told The Washington Post. 
  
 “I would say to my friends in the House of Representatives with whom I serve, do not walk the plank and vote for a bill that cannot pass the Senate and then have to face the consequences of that vote,” he told ABC News’s George Stephanopoulos in an interview aired March 12. 
  
 1. House health-care bill can't pass Senate w/o major changes. To my friends in House: pause, start over. Get it right, don't get it fast. — Tom Cotton (@TomCottonAR) March 9, 2017 
  
 4. Sen. Susan Collins (Maine): “This is not a bill I could support in its current form,” the moderate senator, who has expressed concerns about its defunding of Planned Parenthood and impacts on health-care costs for the elderly, told the Portland Press Herald. 
  
 5. Sen. Ted Cruz (Tex.): “I cannot vote for any bill that keeps premiums rising,” he told CBS's “Face the Nation” on March 19. He also doesn’t buy GOP leaders’ pitch that Obamacare will be repealed in phases. 
  
 6. Sen. Dean Heller (Nev.): “Not everything in the Affordable Care Act is bad,” Heller told constituents March 11, according to audio obtained by Politico. He elaborated that he’s worried the Republicans’ bill could affect the state’s Medicaid population and that it wouldn’t fully repeal the “Cadillac tax,” a tax on expensive insurance plans. He told NBC on March 17 he “could not support the bill in its current form.” 
  
 Expressed serious concerns (15 House members, 16 senators) 
  
 THE 15 HOUSE MEMBERS WITH CONCERNS: 
  
 1. Rep. Trent Franks (Ariz.): "Right now I haven’t been able to get to yes yet," the House Freedom Caucus ally told reporters on March 20. 
  
 2. Rep. Ken Buck (Colo.): The Denver Post reported that he has concerns about the bill, specifically whether Congress would have the fortitude to shut down the Medicaid expansion in 2020, in the middle of a presidential campaign. 
  
 3. Rep. Paul A. Gosar (Ariz.): His office said March 23 he is leaning no but he is "continuing to work with GOP leadership to incorporate his concerns. "I'm tired of this place: You got to pass something because there’s some little deadline? Do the right thing," he told the LA Times on March 21. 
  
 4. Rep. Ron DeSantis (Fla.): “By retaining the core features of Obamacare, the American Health Care Act fails to address the escalating cost of health insurance,” he said, according to the Tampa Bay Times. 
  
 5. Rep. Steve Pearce (New Mexico): The House Freedom Caucus member told the Albuquerque Journal that after meeting with Vice President Mike Pence on March 22 about the legislation, he's a "lean no," adding: "I’ve been lean no for most of the time. From the very early stages, it looked like there were things that were not going to be good for New Mexico and where our (low-income) economic strata lie." 
  
 6. Rep. Jeff Duncan (S.C.): “My biggest concern thus far is that the current plan falls short of the promise we made to fully repeal Obamacare,” he wrote on Facebook. “The current bill leaves large portions of that law intact, including some of the taxes.” 
  
 7. Rep. Patrick Meehan (Pa.): His office told the Philadelphia Inquirer he is undecided on “whether it’s prudent to move forward with the legislation and whether improvements to the bill can be made.” 
  
 8. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (Fla.): He voted for it in the Budget Committee, but then clarified his vote as “procedural” and said it “does not mean I will support final passage,” adding to the Miami Herald he has “serious concerns” about the bill. 
  
 9. Rep. Ryan Costello (Pa.): Costello, who voted for the bill as it made its way through the committee, told the Times Herald on March 16 that he is reconsidering the bill, specifically the CBO projections that it would cut health care for millions of people. 
  
 10. Rep. Dan Webster (Fla.): “I am very concerned about the impact proposals will have on the demand for Medicaid beds in Florida nursing homes,” he said in a constituent newsletter, according to the Tampa Bay Times. 
  
 11. Rep. Carlos Curbelo (Fla.): He told the Miami Herald in a statement Friday the CBO report “raised some serious concerns,” but he did not elaborate on what, specifically. 
  
 12. Rep. Scott DesJarlais (Tenn.): “I won’t say I’m a no, but I’m certainly leaning no,” he told the USA Today Network-Tennessee on March 14, citing concerns the CBO report didn’t show premium costs lowering anytime soon. 
  
 13. Rep. Randy Weber (Texas): The Dallas Morning News reports he's opposed to the bill. But a Weber spokesman told the Austin American Statesman on March 23: "He is currently still trying to negotiate some additional changes to the legislation." 
  
 14. Rep. Will Hurd (Texas): "I’ve asked for Medicaid expansion and non-expansion states to be treated equally, and I’ve asked that doctors who take care of these vulnerable populations receive the support they need so that they do not opt-out of treating Medicaid patients all together, further restricting access to care," the moderate Republican wrote in a press release March 19. 
  
 15. Rep. Kevin Yoder (Kan.): The member of House GOP leadership's whip team told the Kansas City Star on March 23 that removing pre-existing conditions would be a non-starter. 
  
 THE 16 SENATORS WITH CONCERNS: 
  
 1., 2., 3., 4. Sens. Rob Portman (Ohio), Shelley Moore Capito (W.Va.), Cory Gardner (Colo.) and Lisa Murkowski (Alaska): “We will not support a plan that does not include stability for Medicaid expansion populations or flexibility for states,” they wrote in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). 
  
 5. Sen. Roy Blunt (Mo.): “Well, I haven’t had time to look at it in great depth yet, so we’ll see,” Blunt told KMBZ Radio as the plan was rolled out. “What I don’t like is it may not be a plan that gets a majority of votes and lets us move on. Because we can’t stay where we are with the plan we’ve got now.” 
  
 6. Sen. John Thune (S.D.): “There are lots of ways you can fix and amend the bill,” Thune told reporters March 7, indicating that would have to be done to the current legislation making its way through the House. 
  
 7. Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.): “Obviously, it’s not 100 percent of what I would want to see,” Rubio told WJNO Radio on March 8, without detailing exactly what he’s concerned about. 
  
 8. Sen. Bill Cassidy (La.): “President Trump said that he wants as many people covered as under Obamacare,” he told reporters after the CBO projection was released. “He said that health care should be affordable. If there’s 14 million people losing insurance, of course it’s concerning. I try to avoid hyperbole and adjectives, but it’s concerning.” 
  
 9. Sen. James Lankford (Okla.): “Most folks in the Senate, and I would say the vast majority, are saying if we don’t get some things right, this should not move,” he told local radio March 13. 
  
 10. Sen. Steve Daines (Mont.): “We need to do better,” he said in a statement after the CBO report came out. “I want to see costs and premiums go down to make health care more affordable for Montana families.” 
  
 11. Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.): “At the end of the day, we should pause and try to improve the product in light of the CBO analysis rather than just rejecting it,” he told reporters March 13. 
  
 12. Sen. John McCain (Ariz.): “I'm concerned more … what the House bill will do to Arizona, especially since they expanded Medicaid,” he told reporters March 13. 
  
 13. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (Utah), chairman of the Senate Finance Committee: “Naturally, I’m concerned,” he told reporters March 13 when asked about the estimate that 24 million fewer Americans could be insured over the next decade under the bill. 
  
 14. Sen. Patrick J. Toomey (Pa.): “I’m quite sure that we’re going to want to make some changes, which, I think, are still entirely possible. This is not the final product,” he told local CBS talk radio on March 9. 
  
 15. Sen. Pat Roberts (Kan.): “There has to be some adjustment made for seniors living in rural areas,” he told the Wall Street Journal on March 15. 
  
 16. Sen. Ben Sasse (Neb.): “I think the House bill currently being debated will not pass in its current form,” he told his constituents in a March 17 town hall. Sasse said the bill wasn’t “nimble” enough to help elderly people. 
  
 Leaning “yes” after leaning “no” (19 House members) 
  
 1. Rep. Mark Walker (N.C.): The chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee said he would be willing to vote for the bill if leaders implemented two changes required to get the 170-member conservative caucus on board: “The first is to change the structure of the tax credits to make them partially refundable. The second is freezing Medicaid expansion enrollment during the 115th Congress.” He said Friday an agreement with Trump to make some of those changes wins his support: “On balance and with the changes we agreed to in the bill’s final text, I can vote for it.” 
  
 He added that 16 of the 17 leaders of the influential Republican Study Committee also supported the changes. 
  
 2. Rep. Gary Palmer (Ala.): The House Freedom Caucus member voted against the bill in the House Budget Committee on March 16, but on March 18 he pledged support to Trump for the bill based on a deal to allow states to enforce a work requirement for childless adults on Medicaid. 
  
 3. Rep. Jim Banks (Ind.): “I would support this plan if it contains the changes” that Walker, above, describes, he told local radio WIBC on March 17. 
  
 4. Rep. Claudia Tenney (N.Y.): “I’m for repeal, but right now I don’t think this bill solves the problem as it is,” Tenney told New York Upstate. But she told Politico she changed her mind when House leadership agreed to add an amendment to shift the cost of Medicaid from counties to the state, limiting the amount of federal money that reimburses local governments for Medicaid. 
  
 5. Reps. Tom MacArthur (N.J.) and 6. Tom McClintock (Calif.) and 7. Martha McSally (Ariz.) and 8. Robert B. Aderholt (Ala.): They indicated they would support the bill now that it requests the Senate to increase tax credits for older Americans to get health care. 
  
 MacArthur was one of several Philly area moderates wavering on repeal. Don't be surprised if others follow and get to yes ahead of big vote — Jonathan Tamari (@JonathanTamari) March 21, 2017 
  
 9. Rep. Vicky Hartzler (Mo.): The antiabortion advocate told Politico she now leans “yes” after a tweak was made to the bill that satisfied antiabortion advocates that there would be no inadvertent taxpayer funding for abortion. 
  
 10. Rep. Darrell Issa (Calif.): The Los Angeles Times reports that Issa has introduced his own health-care bill to allow all Americans to purchase the plan available to federal workers, but after meeting with the president, he told ABC he’d vote for it. 
  
 11. Rep. Peter T. King (N.Y.): The Hill reports King told reporters on March 15 he’s leaning “slightly against it” because of the bill’s eventual limitations of Medicaid, but after Trump singled him out in a meeting Tuesday, he’s considering switching his vote. 
  
 Rep. Peter King says Trump pointed him out and said they grew up near each other. After that, "it would be hard for me to vote 'no.'" — Caitlin Huey-Burns (@CHueyBurns) March 21, 2017 
  
 12. Rep. Lou Barletta (Pa.): After he was promised undocumented immigrants couldn't receive tax credits for healthcare, he switched his vote from lean no to yes. 
  
 Met w Trump/Ryan & got guarantee that House will vote in April on my bill to deny tax credits to illegal immigrants. Will now vote for AHCA. — Rep. Lou Barletta (@RepLouBarletta) March 22, 2017 
  
 13. Rep. Steve King (Iowa): “On balance, if the American people had to decide between continuing with Obamacare the way it is … or going back to the way we were, I’d be for going back to the way we were, and then start the process of reform of the existing health-care system, and I think people are better off that way,” he told Chris Hayes of MSNBC on March 9. On March 22 he said this: 
  
 Iowa GOP Rep Steve King flipped to YES after President Trump pledged to push for insurance regs changes in Senate -per Rep Hudson — Deirdre Walsh (@deirdrewalshcnn) March 22, 2017 
  
 14. Rep. Peter J. Roskam (Ill.): He told Crain’s Chicago Business on March 14 the bill is “very much a work in progress,” specifically citing his concern over potential cuts to Medicaid recipients in his state. But on March 15, he told WTTW TV that despite his concerns, he supports the measure. 
  
 15. Rep. Darin LaHood (Ill.): He said on March 11 he is “not there yet ... skeptical.” But he told Tri States Public Radio on March 21 he plans to support it: "The average premium in my district has gone up 55% in the last four years so what I’m looking for is legislation that will fix the costs. I think the bill that was introduced in the House is the right approach." 
  
 16. Rep. Jim Bridenstine (Okla.): The House Freedom Caucus member told CNN on March 10 that he would not support the bill as it stands. He issued a statement on March 22 saying he still has reservations, but: "In my judgment though, this is the opening legislative salvo of the Trump Presidency, and we cannot let it fail when we do not have a shot at a better option. Therefore, I will vote 'Yes'." 
  
 17. Rep. David McKinley (W. Va.): Politico reports on March 22 he intends to vote no over concerns of how this bill might negatively affect insurance and pension benefits for retired mine workers in his district. But he told West Virginia's Metro News he would be voting for the bill. 
  
 18. Rep Joe Barton (Tex.): The former chair of the energy and commerce committee that oversees health care told reporters on March 20 he is a “friendly lean no," then decided late March 23 the bill was good enough. 
  
 Joe Barton, seen as a gettable Freedom Caucus member, says he's a yes: "You want a touchdown but sometimes you kick a field goal." — Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) March 24, 2017 
  
 19. Rep. Glenn Thompson (Pa.): “I have concerns with any proposal that would increase costs for older Americans,” he told the Centre Daily Times on March 18, explaining his opposition. The Washington Post congressional team reports late March 23 he decided to support the bill. 
  
 Correction: Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) has been removed from this list after he was inaccurately quoted by reporters as saying he wants the bill to slow down. Perdue actually said he wants to “get this right,” and his office elaborated in a statement to The Fix: “[T]he Senator believes we need to get health care done and has every confidence that President Trump and Dr. Price will oversee a smooth transition. " ||||| The House may delay its vote on the GOP's ObamaCare replacement plan until Friday or next week, several lawmakers said. 
  
 "It didn't look like today was going to be when we're going to vote," said Rep. Phil Roe (R-Tenn.) after leaving a meeting with committee chairs and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), who controls the House floor schedule. 
  
 Roe said a vote may come Friday. 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 The vote on the healthcare bill was originally planned for Thursday, the seven-year anniversary of the day ObamaCare was signed into law. 
  
 As of Thursday afternoon, GOP leaders had not made a final decision about whether to delay the vote until Friday or next week. 
  
 They were still assessing negotiations that took place Thursday between President Trump and the far-right House Freedom Caucus at the White House. After the meeting, members of the caucus said they had not reached a deal with President Trump to win their support. 
  
 House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-Ore.) expressed doubt that a vote would happen on Thursday. 
  
 "I don't think we'll vote today. Just because we planned, like, what, five hours of debate. That puts it pretty late into the night," Walden said after leaving the Speaker's suite mid-afternoon Thursday. 
  
 Walden suggested the House could begin debate on Thursday and hold the vote Friday, but cautioned that Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy's (R-Calif.) office would make the final decision. 
  
  
  
 White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he still expects the bill to come up for a vote Thursday. ||||| The move by President Donald Trump and Speaker Paul Ryan is an enormous gamble, setting up a real cliffhanger when the legislation hits the floor on Friday. | Getty Trump demands Friday health care vote The moment of truth arrives for the Republican Party’s years-long drive to repeal the health care law. 
  
 President Donald Trump is demanding a vote Friday in the House on the Republican plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney told GOP lawmakers. If the bill fails, Trump is prepared to move on and leave Obamacare in place, Mulvaney warned. 
  
 The surprise announcement by the top White House official — made with the full support of Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and other House GOP leaders — came during a closed-door meeting of Republicans Thursday evening in the basement of the Capitol. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 Mulvaney, a member of the House until a few weeks ago who now heads the Office of Management and Budget, said Trump was done negotiating and wanted an up-or-down vote now. 
  
 The move by Trump and Ryan is an enormous gamble, setting up a real cliffhanger when the legislation hits the floor on Friday. 
  
 All day Thursday, the White House and GOP leaders lacked the votes to pass the American Health Care Act. A loss on the House floor would be a glaring embarrassment for the new president and House speaker — one that could undermine other parts of the GOP legislative agenda, including tax reform. 
  
 A victory, on the other hand, would provide not just a shot of badly-needed momentum for both men, but undermine the House Freedom Caucus, the group of conservative hard-liners who've fought the GOP health care plan because it doesn't go far enough. 
  
 The group's opposition was seen as a public rebuke to both the White House and House GOP leadership. If the the Freedom Caucus loses to Trump and Ryan, its power will be curtailed. If it wins, the group will once again be able to dictate terms to party leaders. 
  
 Yet this is the showdown that many mainstream GOP rank-and-file members have sought. They want a fight out in the open with the Freedom Caucus — either the group votes against Trump, or it gives in. 
  
 Negotiations between Trump and the Freedom Caucus hit an impasse earlier Thursday its members were told recent concessions from the White House and GOP leadership represented a final offer. The group rejected that, wanting more. 
  
 The setbacks triggered another series of meetings later Thursday — between Trump and the moderate Tuesday Group, and separately between the Freedom Caucus and Ryan. That was followed by a full GOP Conference meeting where Trump played his trump card. 
  
 Trump and Ryan had found themselves playing see-saw with moderates and hard-liners: Lean too much toward one faction and they lose votes from the other. So far, they've been unable to find a sweet spot. 
  
 Ryan can afford to lose only 22 votes on the floor. The Freedom Caucus has three dozen members, many of whom have vowed to block the bill unless they get what they want. More than a dozen centrist Republicans have also come out against the bill, further endangering its prospects. 
  
 But the Trump-Ryan gambit may pay off. Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) said the move by Trump and Ryan “certainly does” put enormous pressure on the Freedom Caucus to get behind the bill. And already a handful sounded like their positions were softer than they had been before. 
  
 Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), who said he remains undecided, added that efforts by the Freedom Caucus had “improved the bill.” Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said members will feel more pressure to vote "yes" with the bill on the floor, even if they may have felt comfortable opposing it before. Sanford said he was undecided. 
  
 Rep. Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.) was a "no" but is now undecided. 
  
 "I've got to decide whether this is best for my district and best for the president and best for my country. And I'm not convinced it will bend the cost curve down... but it may be as good as it gets on this one," DesJarlais said. 
  
 “We get elected to make votes, and this is a big vote,” added Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), a Freedom Caucus member who supports the bill and called it “the right thing to do.” 
  
 “I think it passes," he added. 
  
 Thursday vote on health care bill canceled House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy announces that they will not be voting on the health care bill on Thursday. poster="https://v.politico.com/images/1155968404/201703/3137/1155968404_5370237544001_5370228444001-vs.jpg?pubId=1155968404" true 
  
 GOP Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.) said Mulvaney "put it completely in focus. The moment is now. Do we advance the cause so we can move forward and move on and accomplish what we said we would and repeal and replace Obamacare ... and also tax reform? It's a major test, and we're gonna pass that test tomorrow." 
  
 "If we vote it down, we will neuter Donald Trump's presidency ... We are not going to undermine the president's ability to get things done,” Rep. Dana Rohrabacher told reporters after the meeting. 
  
 A senior administration official in the room for the Freedom Caucus meeting at the White House said most members left the meeting as "no's" but suggested some flipped to "yes." While Trump did not go around the room and ask people how they would vote, it became immediately clear GOP leaders did not appear to win over enough members to put the measure over the top. 
  
 "We're down right now," the official said. 
  
 Freedom Caucus chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told reporters in the Capitol Thursday afternoon that "we have not gotten enough of our members to get to yes at this point. … However, I would say progress is being made." He called Trump's engagement in the negotiations perhaps "unparalleled in the history of our country." 
  
 There were daunting obstacles to a deal heading into the White House meeting Thursday morning. A number of Freedom Caucus members had suggested Trump’s latest concession — repealing Obamacare's mandate that insurance plans provide a minimum level of "essential" benefits — wasn't enough. The group wants a complete repeal of all Affordable Care Act regulations — including popular provisions Trump promised he would maintain. 
  
 Breaking News Alerts Get breaking news when it happens — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
  
 The conservatives' target list encompasses a prohibition against discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions and a requirement that adults up to age 26 can remain on their parents’ health insurance. 
  
 “Repealing [essential health benefits], w/out making other substantial changes, would make the bill worse, not better,” tweeted Freedom Caucus member Justin Amash (R-Mich.). “It would hurt the sickest people on exchanges.” 
  
 The Freedom Caucus has been a constant thorn in the side of House GOP leadership, sinking bills its members believe were too accommodating to Democrats. The group was expected to fall in line behind Trump after he won, but it has refused to do so on the health care bill. 
  
 Now, Freedom Caucus members are threatening to trip up not John Boehner or Ryan, but a Republican commander-in-chief who remains highly popular in their districts. 
  
 Many House Republicans are furious with the Freedom Caucus, saying the group keeps moving the goal posts and that it really wants to sink the health care bill altogether. 
  
 “The president is good at negotiating, but he has to have someone who wants to get to yes,” Rep. Mike Kelly (R-Pa.), an ardent Trump supporter, told POLITICO. “I was never able to sell a car or a truck to someone who didn’t want a car or a truck. It just doesn’t work. And that’s where we are right now. I don’t think they’re really interested in getting to an ‘end.’” 
  
 Kelly then added: “Maybe the ‘end’ is: making sure it doesn’t pass.” 
  
 Jake Sherman and John Bresnahan contributed to this report. ||||| Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more |||||