@ USGSVolcanoes Is it safe to roast marshmallows over volcanic vents? Assuming you had a long enough stick, that is? Or would the resulting marshmallows be poisonous? @ JimGriffith_SV @ DrFunkySpoon ||||| (CNN) Hazards created by Hawaii's Kilauea volcano have spawned a lot of questions from the public. How long will this last? Is it safe to be on Big Island right now? Can I roast marshmallows? 
  
 The US Geological Survey has been answering those questions on social media . Here's a look at some of them. The questions have been edited for clarity and brevity. 
  
 Q: Is it safe to roast marshmallows over volcanic vents? 
  
 USGS: Erm...we're going to have to say no, that's not safe. (Please don't try!) If the vent is emitting a lot of SO2 [sulfur dioxide] or H2S [hydrogen sulfide], they would taste BAD. And if you add sulfuric acid (in vog, for example) to sugar, you get a pretty spectacular reaction. 
  
 Erm...we're going to have to say no, that's not safe. (Please don't try!) If the vent is emitting a lot of SO2 or H2S, they would taste BAD. And if you add sulfuric acid (in vog, for example) to sugar, you get a pretty spectacular reaction. 
  
 Q: Is it safe to be in Hawaii right now? 
  
 USGS: The eruption at Kilauea right now is impacting a small portion of the Big Island. Lava flows are active on the eastern tip of the island, in lower Puna, and Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is closed due to the small explosions occurring at Kilauea's summit. But the Island of Hawaii is made up of 5 volcanoes, and only Kilauea is erupting. 
  
 Even if there were to be a change in activity at Kilauea, it would not impact Hilo or Kailua-Kona (the largest towns on the island), which are located on different volcanoes. The biggest impacts might be vog, but that has been a persistent issue on the island for decades. You can actually get real-time vog information at sites around the island from the Hawaii Department of Health at http://www.hiso2index.info/ 
  
 Q: But what about the vog? 
  
 USGS: Vog has been persistent on the Big Island for decades -- it's a product of any active eruption. It got worse in 2008, when the summit eruption started. During some types of weather conditions, it can bring a haze to Kailua-Kona, but it is not a significant health hazard. There is quite a bit more vog being generated in the lower East Rift Zone by the current eruption, but it still is not a major concern in Kailua-Kona. 
  
 For more information about vog, check out https://vog.ivhhn.org/ . In fact, you can see a map of vog conditions throughout the island at http://www.hiso2index.info/ 
  
 Q: Will the explosions on the summit continue for weeks? Months? Years? Decades? 
  
 USGS: We know how long similar explosive activity has lasted (the 1924 eruptions went on for about 2.5 weeks), but we can't guarantee that the activity now will follow the same pattern. 
  
 Q: Is there an estimate on volume of lava flow yet? 
  
 USGS: Not yet. Lava flow volumes are extraordinarily difficult to measure, but we are working on various means of determining eruption rates (including topographic mapping thanks to a NASA airplane that is on site, and also measuring gases, which can be used as a proxy for effusion rate). ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| This image released by the US Geological Survey (USGS) courtesy of the Hawaii Civil Air Patrol, shows an aerial view of Kilauea Volcano's summit caldera and an ash plume billowing from Halemaumau, a crater within the caldera, on May 27, 2018. The USGSHawaiian Volcano Observatory and Hawaii Volcanoes National Park's Jaggar Museum are visible on the caldera rim (C R) and the Kilauea Military Camp can be seen in the lower right. (Photo: HANDOUT, US Geological Survey / Hawaii Civil Air Patrol via AFP/Getty Images) 
  
 If you are near an active volcano, don't consider making s'mores, the U.S. Geological Survey warns. 
  
 As Hawaii's Kilauea volcano continues to spew lava and toxic gas, the USGS has been sharing information and updates on Twitter on the activity as well as answering user questions. Twitter user @jayfurr recently asked if it was safe to roast a marshmallow near a volcano vent. 
  
 That's a bad idea, USGS replied. 
  
 "Erm...we're going to have to say no, that's not safe," wrote the USGS on its verified Twitter account focused on volcanoes, also urging users not to do this. 
  
 Erm...we're going to have to say no, that's not safe. (Please don't try!) If the vent is emitting a lot of SO2 or H2S, they would taste BAD. And if you add sulfuric acid (in vog, for example) to sugar, you get a pretty spectacular reaction. — USGS Volcanoes🌋 (@USGSVolcanoes) May 29, 2018 
  
 For starters, USGS notes if the vents were emitting hydrogen sulfide or sulfur dioxide, then the marshmallows would taste awful. The agency also said if you add sulfuric acid to sugar, "you get a pretty spectacular reaction." 
  
 As of publishing, there have been no documented reports of people trying to roast a marshmallow — or any other food — near a volcano vent. 
  
 Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23. 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2xlLKM8 |||||