The substitute struck after a Danny Collins own goal levelled things up following Calum Dyson's first-half penalty, but the hosts felt aggrieved when the goal came with one of their players down with a head injury.
Grimsby took the lead when Tom Bolarinwa was brought down by Sam Wood in the penalty area and Dyson sent goalkeeper Jamal Blackman the wrong way from the spot to put the hosts in front.
Wycombe found themselves level in freak circumstances in the second half as Blackman sent a free-kick deep into Grimsby's penalty area and Collins inadvertently flicked the ball over keeper James McKeown's head and into the back of the net.
The visitors took the lead with around 20 minutes of the game remaining, but it was not without controversy.
After McKeown punched the ball clear from a free-kick, Gavin Gunning went down with a head injury as Cowan-Hall superbly curled the ball into the top corner.
Gunning was taken off the field on a stretcher, but the goal stood and Wycombe claimed a long-awaited victory.
Match report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Grimsby Town 1, Wycombe Wanderers 2.
Second Half ends, Grimsby Town 1, Wycombe Wanderers 2.
Luke Maxwell (Grimsby Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Matt Bloomfield (Wycombe Wanderers).
Corner,  Grimsby Town. Conceded by Jamal Blackman.
Attempt saved. Callum Dyson (Grimsby Town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Corner,  Grimsby Town. Conceded by Michael Harriman.
Dayle Southwell (Wycombe Wanderers) is shown the yellow card.
Substitution, Wycombe Wanderers. Myles Weston replaces Dayle Southwell.
Sam Jones (Grimsby Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marcus Bean (Wycombe Wanderers).
Corner,  Grimsby Town. Conceded by Paris Cowan-Hall.
Attempt saved. Dominic Vose (Grimsby Town) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Foul by Tom Bolarinwa (Grimsby Town).
Joe Jacobson (Wycombe Wanderers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Attempt missed. Paris Cowan-Hall (Wycombe Wanderers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Substitution, Grimsby Town. Adi Yussuf replaces Danny Collins.
Luke Maxwell (Grimsby Town) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Matt Bloomfield (Wycombe Wanderers).
Danny Collins (Grimsby Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Matt Bloomfield (Wycombe Wanderers).
Sam Jones (Grimsby Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marcus Bean (Wycombe Wanderers).
Attempt missed. Callum Dyson (Grimsby Town) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the left.
Substitution, Grimsby Town. Luke Maxwell replaces Gavin Gunning because of an injury.
Goal!  Grimsby Town 1, Wycombe Wanderers 2. Paris Cowan-Hall (Wycombe Wanderers) right footed shot from outside the box to the top right corner following a set piece situation.
Chris Clements (Grimsby Town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Chris Clements (Grimsby Town).
Luke O'Nien (Wycombe Wanderers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Grimsby Town. Dominic Vose replaces Jamey Osborne.
Attempt missed. Paris Cowan-Hall (Wycombe Wanderers) right footed shot from the right side of the box is just a bit too high.
Attempt saved. Paris Cowan-Hall (Wycombe Wanderers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Own Goal by Danny Collins, Grimsby Town.  Grimsby Town 1, Wycombe Wanderers 1.
Marcus Bean (Wycombe Wanderers) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Sam Jones (Grimsby Town).
Joe Jacobson (Wycombe Wanderers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Tom Bolarinwa (Grimsby Town).
Attempt missed. Michael Harriman (Wycombe Wanderers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Foul by Tom Bolarinwa (Grimsby Town).
Joe Jacobson (Wycombe Wanderers) wins a free kick on the right wing.