There is a tiny, tiny micro-speck of logic at work here, in that Papa John's is a major NFL advertiser and NFL ratings are down this year. On the other hand, ratings have been getting better by the week, and there's very little reason to believe the overall drop has anything to do with protests during the national anthem given that pro football is not the only sport that has suffered viewership declines during the cord-cutting era. In any case, "police brutality protests are ruining my pizza business" is not really an idea anyone should ever express out loud. ||||| SHARE THIS ARTICLE Share Tweet Post Email 
  
 Papa John’s International Inc. founder John Schnatter is going after NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, saying weak handling of the league’s national-anthem controversy has hammered sales of his pizza. 
  
 “The NFL has hurt us by not resolving the current debacle to the players’ and owners’ satisfaction,” Schnatter, who serves as the pizza chain’s chairman and chief executive officer, said on a conference call. “NFL leadership has hurt Papa John’s shareholders.” 
  
 The remarks follow a controversy over NFL football players protesting during the national anthem, a movement that started last season. The demonstrations have sparked calls for a boycott and raised concerns among league sponsors. But Schnatter’s comments mark the highest-profile example of an NFL partner publicly blaming the outcry for hurting business. 
  
 Goodell, whose contract is up for renewal, has taken flak for not resolving the controversy more quickly. The flap has even drawn tweets from President Donald Trump, who called for owners to fire or bench players who refuse to stand during “The Star-Spangled Banner.” 
  
 “Leadership starts at the top, and this is an example of poor leadership,” Schnatter said. 
  
 It’s hard to quantify the connection between the NFL and pizza sales, but Papa John’s did post disappointing results in the latest quarter. Its shares fell as much as 13 percent on Wednesday -- the most in two years -- after same-store sales missed analysts’ estimates. The Louisville, Kentucky-based company also trimmed its revenue and profit forecasts for the year. 
  
 The NFL declined to comment. 
  
 Schnatter has appeared frequently in advertisements during NFL games, including alongside star quarterback Peyton Manning, a franchisee of the chain’s restaurants in Colorado. Back in 2014, when Papa John’s posted a nearly 10 percent gain in North American same-store sales, the company credited its close relationship with the NFL and Manning for driving its business in the U.S. 
  
 On Wednesday, the tone was quite different. Papa John’s post-earnings conference call was dominated by negative talk of the NFL. The league’s name came up 44 times during the discussion, compared with 12 mentions in the year-earlier call. 
  
 The company wasn’t specific about the sales impact from the NFL protests, but indicated it was shifting some marketing spending away from the league. 
  
 It’s not a stretch to say the current ratings decline is hurting pizza sales, said Michael Halen, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. With fewer Americans watching games, fewer people are presumably ordering pizza -- and seeing Papa John’s ads. 
  
 “I’m not blaming them for citing it,” he said. “If this is a permanent thing, they have to figure out where to spend some of those ad dollars.” 
  
 Trump Donor 
  
 Papa John’s has been the NFL’s official pizza sponsor since 2010. Schnatter, who founded the company in 1984, donated to Trump’s campaign and has railed against government regulations. 
  
 NFL players began kneeling during the national anthem more than a year ago -- starting with a protest against racial inequality and police brutality by Colin Kaepernick, then the quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers. The action spread across the NFL and got new life in recent weeks after Trump began criticizing the players. 
  
 Goodell critics have said that he should force players to stand for the anthem. 
  
 “This should have been nipped in the bud a year and a half ago,” Schnatter said on the call. “Like many sponsors, we’re in touch with the NFL. Once the issue is resolved, we’re optimistic the NFL’s best years are ahead.” ||||| Papa John is having a bad day. 
  
 The net worth of John Schnatter, founder and CEO of pizza chain Papa John’s, fell $70 million in less than 24 hours after the company released its third-quarter financial report on Tuesday afternoon. The business beat estimates on earnings and revenue, but it lowered guidance on same-store sales for the coming period. 
  
 Investors were not pleased with that news and sent shares down 11% through 12:30 pm Eastern Time on Wednesday. The stock is now trading at just over $60 per share. 
  
 One casualty of the slide was Schnatter’s personal fortune. The 55-year-old—who owns roughly 25% of Papa John’s—is now worth $801 million, Forbes estimates. 
  
 Schnatter blames part of the downturn on the National Football League, which has faced turbulence amid widespread national anthem protests in the past year. “The NFL has hurt us by not resolving the current debacle,” he said on a conference call on Wednesday. Papa John's is the league's official pizza sponsor. 
  
 So far 2017 has been a challenging year for the restaurant chain. It has lost a quarter of its market capitalization since the start of January. Its future looked significantly brighter earlier this year. Shares hit an all-time high in December 2016, and Schnatter made Forbes’ list of the World’s Billionaires for the first time in March. He has since fallen off the ranks. 
  
 Schnatter, a native of Indiana, built his business from scratch. After graduating from college in 1983, he started working at his father’s tavern, then on the brink of bankruptcy. He sold his car, a 1971 Camaro Z28, to pay off debts and to buy used pizza equipment, which he installed in a broom closet. 
  
 After righting the finances at the bar, Schnatter opened his first Papa John’s in Jeffersonville, Indiana in 1985. Growth came quickly; within six years he had 100 locations. The company now boasts more than 5,000 restaurants in 45 countries and territories. |||||