Six soldiers and three Marines will be hit with administrative punishments for their participation in two high-profile incidents that inflamed the Afghan public early this year and complicated the U.S. mission there. 
  
 But the soldiers who inadvertently incinerated Qurans at a detention center at Bagram Air Field in February and the Marines videotaped in 2011 laughing as they urinated on dead insurgents won’t be criminally prosecuted, military officials announced Monday. Afghan president Hamid Karzai had demanded the soldiers face trial in Afghanistan when President Barack Obama apologized for the destruction of Islam’s holiest book. 
  
 The Army did not release the identity of the six soldiers receiving potentially career-ending general officer letters of reprimand, but said that three are officers, two are noncommissioned officers and one is a warrant officer. 
  
 Marine officials would not specify the nonjudicial punishments that would be imposed upon the Marines, but said they could include similar reprimands, reductions in rank, loss of pay and extra duties. 
  
 U.S. officials said the Qurans were improperly burned after jail guards discovered insurgents were writing messages to each other in the pages of Islam’s holiest book. Horrified Afghan workers at the airfield’s burn pit pulled singed Qurans from the fire, igniting days of protest and violence that included the unsolved murders of two American officers working in a secure government building in Kabul. 
  
 Afghan leaders from Karzai down have called for strict punishments and said a slap on the wrist could spark public anger. The Pentagon on Monday refused to comment on whether enhanced force protection measures were being put in place to deal with potential violence. 
  
 In a redacted report on the Quran incident issued Monday by U.S. Central Command, Army Brig. Gen. Bryan Watson said that U.S. soldiers at the detention facility disregarded repeated warnings from Afghan colleagues that Qurans were among about 2,000 books from the prison library chosen for disposal by burning because a linguist said they contained extremist messages. 
  
 About 100 of the Qurans were burned, the report said, before Afghan workers realized what was happening. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Watson called the Quran burning the result of poor leadership and mistrust between U.S. and Afghan troops. 
  
 “That US Service Members did not heed the warnings of their ANA partners is, perhaps, my biggest concern,” he wrote. 
  
 Watson said soldiers did not intentionally aim to offend Muslim religious sensibilities. 
  
 “I absolutely reject any suggestion that those involved acted with any malicious intent to disrespect the Quran or defame the faith of Islam,” he wrote in the report.” 
  
 Although perhaps more shocking to Western sensibilities, the urination video, which became public in January when it was uploaded to YouTube, did not set off a wave of Afghan anger like the Quran burnings did. 
  
 Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, however, called the conduct by troops from the 3rd Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment based at Camp Lejeune, N.C., “utterly deplorable,” and Marine Commandant James Amos would later issue a letter to commanders telling them to shore up discipline in the ranks. 
  
 According to a Marine Corps press release, two noncommissioned officers have pleaded guilty to posing with human remains in an unofficial photo, with one of the two admitting to urinating on the bodies, while the other admitted filming the incident. 
  
 A higher-ranking staff noncommissioned officer admitted to failing to report the incident and lying about his knowledge of the video. 
  
 The identities of the Marines will not be released, and disciplinary actions against more Marines will be announced later, the Marine Corps said. 
  
 “This is the first set of disciplinary actions taken with regard to this incident,” the press release said. “There are other cases under way.” 
  
  ||||| Afghan protesters burn a U.S. flag during a protest in Jalalabad province in this February 24, 2012 file photo. Protests have raged across Afghanistan over the desecration of copies of the Muslim holy book at a NATO military base with riot police and soldiers on high alert... 
  
 WASHINGTON The U.S. military said on Monday it was disciplining U.S. troops over two incidents that provoked outrage in Afghanistan early this year, one involving a video depicting Marines urinating on corpses and another over burned copies of the Koran. 
  
 The administrative punishments -- which could include things like reduce rank or forfeiture of pay -- fell short of criminal prosecution, and it was unclear whether they would satisfy Afghan demands for justice. 
  
 Afghan President Hamid Karzai earlier this year branded the Marine's actions in the video as "inhuman," and he initially called for a public trial for the soldiers over the Koran incident. 
  
 A detailed U.S. military investigation showed that up to 100 Korans and other religious texts from a detention center library -- a previously undisclosed figure -- were burned on February 20. The investigation found that warnings from Afghans, including a Afghan soldier, had been ignored and attributed the incident in part to distrust between Americans and Afghans. 
  
 "However, I absolutely reject any suggestion that those involved acted with any malicious intent to disrespect the Koran or defame the faith of Islam," the investigating officer, Brigadier General Bryan Watson, wrote. 
  
 The question of distrust between American troops and Afghans has come into sharp focus in recent weeks due to a surge of "insider attacks," in which Afghans believed to be friendly turn their guns against U.S. forces. 
  
 Such distrust has undermined confidence in a U.S. drawdown strategy that relies on training Afghan forces -- sometimes with very small numbers of Americans partnering with them in remote locations -- so they can take over security. Most U.S. combat troops are expected to leave the country by the end of 2014. 
  
 DEADLY RIOTS, ATTACKS ON TROOPS 
  
 The Koran-burning incident touched off several days of rioting and attacks on U.S. troops after local workers found charred copies among the trash at an incinerator at the Bagram base north of Kabul. 
  
 At least 30 people died in the violence that spread across the country after the incident, and two American officers were shot dead in a secure area of the Afghan interior ministry, a crime that remains unsolved. 
  
 The U.S. Army announced on Monday that six soldiers received administrative punishments over the incident, four of them officers and two of the non-commissioned officers, a spokesman said. 
  
 The investigation found that the texts were removed during a sweep of the library at Parwan detention facility due to concerns that detainees were using books to pass messages. 
  
 It partly blamed a translator who warned that up to 75 percent of the books were extremist in nature, including versions of the Koran, but did not instruct American forces how to properly dispose of the texts. 
  
 A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he believed the translator was an Afghan and that he no longer worked for the U.S. military. 
  
 The disclosures about the Koran-burning incident came the same day the Marine Corps detailed its punishment over a video that surfaced on the Internet in January. It showed Marines urinating on the corpses of dead Taliban fighters. One can be heard saying, "Have a nice day, buddy." 
  
 The investigation showed that the incident actually took place on or around July 27, 2011, during a counter-insurgency operation in Afghanistan's Helmand province. 
  
 Three Marines pleaded guilty to charges over the video, including one for "urinating on the body of a deceased Taliban soldier." Another wrongfully posed for a photo with human casualties, and the third lied about the incident to investigators. 
  
 Their identities were not disclosed, and the Marines said disciplinary actions against additional Marines would be announced at a later date. 
  
 Possible punishment includes reduction in rank, forfeiture of pay and punitive letters permanently placed in their records, the Marines said. 
  
 (Editing by Jackie Frank and Philip Barbara) |||||