Wisconsin presidential primary voters shunned front-runners from both the Democratic and Republican parties on April 5. Here are key moments from the victory speeches of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
  
 The Wisconsin primary is in the books. Ted Cruz and Bernie Sanders won solid victories even while Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton remain the clear delegate leaders heading into New York’s primary on April 19. 
  
 Below are my winners and losers from Wisconsin. 
  
 Winners 
  
 How Bernie Sanders won Wisconsin, in less than 60 seconds (Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post) 
  
 *Bernie Sanders: Bernie Sanders is a 74-year-old, avowed socialist from Vermont. When he announced his presidential candidacy last year, no one — up to and including Bernie Sanders — thought he would win one state, much less the 15 he has now won. No, his win in Wisconsin won’t fundamentally alter Sanders's delegate math problem; to solve that issue, Sanders needs to win big states by very big margins. But, Sanders’s ability to win — and keep winning — in head-to-head match-ups against Clinton means that he has and will continue to have a major voice within the party. What Sanders wants to do with that voice — whether in the two remaining months of the primary process or at the national convention this summer — is the key question he has to decide on. And that Clinton has to worry about. 
  
 * Ted Cruz: Give the Texas senator credit: When he needs to win, he wins. If Cruz had lost Wisconsin, pressure would have ramped up on him to bow to the political reality of Trump as the nominee. Now, he can make the case that Wisconsin fundamentally changed the trajectory of the 2016 race (I don’t buy it). 
  
 "Tonight is a turning point. It is a rallying cry," Cruz says in Wisconsin — Katie Zezima (@katiezez) April 6, 2016 
  
 How Ted Cruz won the Wisconsin GOP primary, in 60 seconds (Peter Stevenson/The Washington Post) 
  
 Cruz gets 18 delegates for winning the statewide vote in Wisconsin and if his margins hold up, he looks well positioned to take the lion’s share of the remaining 24 delegates, importantly keeping most of them from Trump. For Cruz, the rest of the primary calendar is all about two things: (1) Keeping Trump under the 1,237 delegates needed to formally clinch the nomination and (2) Positioning himself as the clear/only Trump alternative. Cruz took a big step in the right direction on both fronts on Tuesday night. 
  
 * New York: Not that the state — and especially New York City — need much ego-bolstering, but, holy cow, the next two weeks are going to put the Empire State in the political limelight. That will be something new-ish for New York since the presidential nominations are almost always foregone conclusions before they get to the state. But the Clinton-Sanders fight to lay claim to the title of New York’s favorite Democrat will be epic. And Trump’s attempt to reassert himself as the likely GOP nominee in the state where he has made his name and his fortune should be great theater too. Take it away, Billy! 
  
 * Charlie Sykes: Outside of Wisconsin, almost no one had heard of Sykes two weeks ago. But, after his pointed interview with Trump, Sykes suddenly became a known national commodity. (He was doing a sitdown with Chris Matthews on MSNBC on Tuesday night!) Good on you, Charlie! 
  
 * Political junkies: An open Republican convention is more likely today than it was yesterday. I — and every other political junkie — never thought we would see one (in either party) in our lifetime. Now, it looks like a 50-50 proposition (or maybe even a bit better). This is me, when thinking of the idea of covering an open convention in Cleveland this summer: 
  
 Losers 
  
 * Donald Trump: Polling done in February showed the real estate mogul with a comfortable lead. He lost convincingly on Tuesday to Cruz. Why? Self-inflicted errors — from being totally unprepared for an interview with Sykes to his fumbling of questions about his stance on abortion. Want a stat that epitomizes Trump’s problems in Wisconsin? More than one in three (35 percent) of Wisconsin Republicans said that the prospect of a Trump presidency “scared” them. 
  
 There’s no other way to put it: Trump blew a chance in Wisconsin to take a major symbolic step toward the Republican nomination. The next two weeks will now be filled with questions of whether or not Trump’s hold on the nomination is slipping — not exactly the best run-up to the New York primary. Trump remains a favorite in the Empire State primary — and in the mid-Atlantic and Northeastern states set to vote in the coming month — but if he comes up short of the 1,237 delegates he needs to be the nominee, Wisconsin will count as a major regret for the billionaire. 
  
 * Hillary Clinton: Yes, the former secretary of state has a commanding — and close to insurmountable — delegate lead over Sanders. Even after Wisconsin. And, yes, it’s hard to imagine a scenario where Sanders passes Clinton in pledged delegates (never mind her massive superdelegate edge). 
  
 BUT (all caps intentional!) Clinton has now lost seven of the last eight votes in this race to Sanders. That’s a remarkable thing when you consider everything I wrote above. Everyone expects — and has long expected — Clinton to be the nominee. The delegate math is close to conclusive for Clinton. And yet, Sanders not only keeps winning but for the third straight month the Vermont socialist outraised Clinton. New York becomes even more important for Clinton now as, if she loses it, the “she’s limping to the nomination” storyline will take over, which is very dangerous to her attempts at building momentum for the general election. 
  
 * John Kasich: Remember when Kasich’s claim to relevance in this presidential race was that he was the Republican who could win in the industrial Midwest? The Ohio governor never even got into the conversation in Wisconsin, remarkable given that Cruz isn’t an obvious fit for the state. Kasich will keep on running — he and his campaign have made that abundantly clear over the last 48 hours. And that is obviously his right. But, how do you make a case that you should be the nominee if/when the only state you won in the presidential nomination fight is the one you currently represent? 
  
 * Primary night speeches: No Clinton or Trump speeches on a primary night? Color me disappointed. If I need to stay up until all hours to cover these votes, the least the remaining five candidates can do is throw me a bone and give a victory/defeat speech. Come on, man. What are we even doing out there, man? ||||| Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., waves to the crowd with his wife, Jane Sanders, by his side during a campaign rally Tuesday evening in the Arts and Sciences Auditorium at... (Associated Press) 
  
 Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., waves to the crowd with his wife, Jane Sanders, by his side during a campaign rally Tuesday evening in the Arts and Sciences Auditorium at the University of Wyoming campus on April 5, 2016, in Laramie, Wyo. Sanders won the Democratic presidential... (Associated Press) 
  
 NEW YORK (AP) — Republican Donald Trump emerged from Wisconsin as a damaged front-runner following a crushing loss to rival Ted Cruz, deepening questions about the billionaire businessman's presidential qualifications and pushing the GOP toward a rare contested convention fight. 
  
 Democrat Bernie Sanders also scored a sweeping victory in Wisconsin's primary that gives him a fresh incentive to keep challenging Hillary Clinton. But Sanders still lags Clinton significantly in the delegate count. 
  
 Both parties are turning their sights toward New York, which offers a massive delegate prize in its April 19 contests. It marks a homecoming of sorts for several candidates, with Trump, Clinton and Sanders all touting roots in the state. 
  
 Trump, who has dominated the Republican race for months, suddenly finds himself on the defensive as the campaign moves east. He's struggled through a series of missteps, including his campaign manager's legal issues after an altercation with a female reporter and his own awkward explanation of his position on abortion. 
  
 Exit polls in Wisconsin highlighted the deep worries about Trump surging through some corners of the Republican Party. A majority of GOP voters said they're either concerned about or scared of a potential Trump presidency, according to surveys conducted by Edison Research for The Associated Press and television networks. 
  
 Cruz has stepped forward as the candidate best positioned to block Trump, though it would likely take a convention battle to accomplish that goal. A Texas senator with a complicated relationship with Republican leaders, Cruz cast his Wisconsin victory as a "turning point" in the race and urged the party to rally around his candidacy. 
  
 "We've got the full spectrum of the Republican Party coming together and uniting behind this campaign," he said. 
  
 Trump was unbowed in his defeat. His campaign put out a biting statement accusing Cruz of being "worse than a puppet — he is a Trojan horse, being used by the party bosses attempting to steal the nomination from Mr. Trump." 
  
 Sanders still trails Clinton in the pledged delegate count and has so far been unable to persuade superdelegates— the party officials who can back any candidate — to drop their allegiance to the former secretary of state and back his campaign. 
  
 At a raucous rally in Wyoming, Sanders cast his victory as a sign of mounting momentum for his campaign. 
  
 "With our victory tonight in Wisconsin, we have now won 7 out of 8 of the last caucuses and primaries," he declared. 
  
 With an overwhelming white electorate and liberal pockets of voters, Wisconsin was favorable territory for Sanders. In a sign of Clinton's low expectations in the Midwestern state, she spent Tuesday night at a fundraiser with top donors in New York City. 
  
 Clinton congratulated Sanders on Twitter and thanked her supporters in Wisconsin. "To all the voters and volunteers who poured your hearts into this campaign: Forward!" she wrote. 
  
 Sanders' win will net him a handful of additional delegates, but he'll still lag Clinton significantly. With 86 delegates at stake in Wisconsin, Sanders will pick up at least 45 and Clinton will gain at least 31. 
  
 That means Sanders must still win 67 percent of the remaining delegates and uncommitted superdelegates in order to win the Democratic nomination. 
  
 Clinton's campaign has cast her overall lead as nearly insurmountable. Yet Sanders' continued presence in the race has become an irritant for Clinton, keeping her from turning her attention to the general election. 
  
 In the Republican race, Cruz was poised to collect most of Wisconsin's 42 Republican delegates. 
  
 Trump still has a narrow path to claim the nomination by the end of the primaries on June 7. But by losing Wisconsin, the real estate mogul has little room for error in upcoming contests. 
  
 Complicating the primary landscape for both Cruz and Trump is the continuing candidacy of John Kasich. The Ohio governor's only victory has come in his home state, but he's still picking up delegates that would otherwise help Trump inch closer to the nomination or help Cruz catch up. 
  
 To win a prolonged convention fight, a candidate would need support from the individuals selected as delegates. The process of selecting those delegates is tedious, and will test the mettle of Trump's slim campaign operation. 
  
 Cruz prevailed in an early organizational test in North Dakota, scooping up endorsements from delegates who were selected at the party's state convention over the weekend. While all 28 go to the national convention as free agents, 10 said in interviews they were committed to Cruz. None has so far endorsed Trump. 
  
 Despite the concern among some Wisconsin Republicans about Trump becoming president, nearly 6 in 10 GOP voters there said the party should nominate the candidate with the most support in the primaries, which so far would be Trump. Even among voters who favored Cruz, 4 in 10 said the candidate with the most support going into the convention should be the party's nominee. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Pace reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Hope Yen, Stephen Ohlemacher and Emily Swanson contributed to this report. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Follow Julie Pace on Twitter at: http://twitter.com/jpaceDC ||||| Watch CNN and NY1's Democratic debate, moderated by Wolf Blitzer, Thursday, April 14 at 9 p.m. ET. 
  
 Milwaukee (CNN) Ted Cruz's win over Donald Trump in Wisconsin means a contested GOP convention is not only possible, but may be probable. And Bernie Sanders reminded Hillary Clinton that the Democratic race isn't over yet. 
  
 Wisconsin was a must-win for both Cruz and Sanders as the 2016 race shifts to New York , where both front-runners will try to regain their footing in the state they call home. Both did just that -- and they racked up big margins of victory, with Cruz besting Trump by 15 percentage points and Sanders ahead of Clinton by 13 points. 
  
 Here are five takeaways from Tuesday's contests: 
  
 A contested convention is more likely 
  
 For Trump, getting the delegate math to add up to 1,237 before the Republican National Convention in Cleveland was always a tall task. 
  
 Photos: Who's running for president? Photos: Who's running for president? Ted Cruz, Donald Trump, John Kasich, Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? 
  
  
  
 "So, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again," Trump told the crowd at his announcement. Businessman Donald Trump announced June 16 at his Trump Tower in New York City that he is seeking the Republican presidential nomination. This ends more than two decades of flirting with the idea of running for the White House."So, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially running for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again," Trump told the crowd at his announcement. Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? 
  
  
  
 "These are all of our stories," Cruz told the audience at Liberty University in Virginia. "These are who we are as Americans. And yet for so many Americans, the promise of America seems more and more distant." Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas has made a name for himself in the Senate, solidifying his brand as a conservative firebrand willing to take on the GOP's establishment. He announced he was seeking the Republican presidential nomination in a speech on March 23."These are all of our stories," Cruz told the audience at Liberty University in Virginia. "These are who we are as Americans. And yet for so many Americans, the promise of America seems more and more distant." Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? Ohio Gov. John Kasich joined the Republican field July 21 as he formally announced his White House bid. 
  
  
  
 "I am here to ask you for your prayers, for your support ... because I have decided to run for president of the United States," Kasich told his kickoff rally at the Ohio State University. Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? 
  
  
  
 "Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion -- so you can do more than just get by -- you can get ahead. And stay ahead," she said in her announcement video. "Because when families are strong, America is strong. So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time. And I hope you'll join me on this journey." Hillary Clinton launched her presidential bid on April 12 through a video message on social media. The former first lady, senator and secretary of state is considered the front-runner among possible Democratic candidates."Everyday Americans need a champion, and I want to be that champion -- so you can do more than just get by -- you can get ahead. And stay ahead," she said in her announcement video. "Because when families are strong, America is strong. So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time. And I hope you'll join me on this journey." Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Who's running for president? 
  
  
  
 "This great nation and its government belong to all of the people and not to a handful of billionaires, their super PACs and their lobbyists," Sanders said at a rally in Vermont on May 26. Sen. Bernie Sanders , an independent from Vermont who caucuses with Democrats, announced his run in an email to supporters on April 30. He has said the United States needs a "political revolution" of working-class Americans to take back control of the government from billionaires."This great nation and its government belong to all of the people and not to a handful of billionaires, their super PACs and their lobbyists," Sanders said at a rally in Vermont on May 26. Hide Caption 6 of 6 
  
 It just got much more difficult. 
  
 Cruz's big Wisconsin win raises the possibility that Trump romps in the Northeast, wins California and still comes up just short, throwing the nominating battle into a contested convention. 
  
 Cruz tried again to consolidate the anti-Trump movement , touting in a Milwaukee speech the $2 million he said his campaign has raised Tuesday alone. 
  
 JUST WATCHED What is a brokered convention? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is a brokered convention? 01:35 
  
 He also made a play to unify Republicans, dropping his usual attacks on Trump and instead taking aim at Clinton in his victory speech. 
  
 "Either before Cleveland or at the convention in Cleveland, together, we will win a majority of the delegates, and together, we will beat Hillary Clinton in November," Cruz said. 
  
 The Texas senator's supporters -- and Republicans allied with anybody whose name isn't Trump -- crowed that Wisconsin marked a turning point in the race, especially as Trump watches delegates slip away in states he's already won because his campaign hasn't mastered the contest's procedural intricacies. 
  
 "GOP voters in Wisconsin rejected Donald Trump just like the entire Republican base will do in Cleveland this summer," Katie Packer, a Republican strategist who helms the anti-Trump Our Principles PAC, said in a statement. 
  
 Trump has to regroup 
  
 The good news for Trump: The next stop is New York, where the billionaire calls home and is up in the polls. 
  
 But Wisconsin shows he has some brand maintenance to do. 
  
 Coming off perhaps the worst week of his campaign , Trump -- who'd claimed as recently as Tuesday morning that he thought he'd win the Badger State -- fell far short. He split the vote with Cruz of Republicans who said they wanted a candidate who could bring change. He was blown away by those worried about electability. 
  
 One especially concerning figure for Trump: He was blown out by 22 percentage points by Cruz in suburban areas and 13 points in urban areas, compared to just 3 points in rural areas. That's bad news as the race moves to the densely-populated east coast. 
  
 That all explains why Trump lost, and lays out the challenges he confronts: Now he has to face down adversity and appear, in his own words, "more presidential." 
  
 The only silver lining might have been that there was no significant gender gap -- an indication Trump's two stumbles and subsequent reversals over abortion didn't depress his support from women. 
  
 Bern-ing hot headed into New York 
  
 Sanders got an affirmation of his momentum, with six wins in the last seven contests. He will need that momentum to stay strong if he's going to truly knock Clinton off her heels 
  
 To keep his streak going, Sanders will need to beat her out east -- in New York on April 19, and then in some combination of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Delaware the following week. 
  
 In those states, Sanders will be competing without his typical advantages. In Wisconsin, loyal Democrats split 50-50, but Sanders won independents 71-29. The east coast races, though, are closed contests -- which means only registered Democrats can participate, limiting his ability to bring new, young voters into the process. 
  
 What Wisconsin gives Sanders is the ability to keep raising big dollars, and keep his supporters energized in states where organizational work will be especially important. He has outraised Clinton, $109 million to $75 million, in the last three months. 
  
 Before heading east, Sanders made a stop in Laramie, Wyoming, where he'll try to make it seven out of eight states when that state holds its caucuses Saturday. 
  
 "I was told that about 5,000 people participated in the last Wyoming caucus. It looks like all of them are here tonight," he joked as he started his speech, leaning hard into one buzzword: "Momentum." 
  
 "I know a little bit about New York because I spent the first 18 years of my life in Brooklyn, New York. Now please keep this a secret -- do not tell Secretary Clinton; she's getting a little nervous and I don't want her to get more nervous -- but I believe we've got an excellent chance to win New York and a lot of delegates in that state," he said. 
  
 Clinton waiting for Sanders 
  
 Wisconsin was the kind of state -- overwhelmingly white, and independents are allowed into party primaries -- that Sanders had to win. And he did: He crushed Clinton among voters 18-29 by his standard margin of 82% to 18%, and won those 30-44, two to one. He won white voters, 59% to 41%. That number was flipped among non-whites, but in Wisconsin, 83% of the Democratic electorate was white. 
  
 States like New York that are far more diverse have proven to be Clinton country. And the former secretary of state is wasting no time welcoming Sanders back to the state where he grew up. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Bernie Sanders feeling media heat after new interview Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bernie Sanders feeling media heat after new interview 01:23 
  
 Readers of The New York Daily News will see a front-page story Wednesday denouncing "Bernie's Sandy Hook shame." Sanders Tuesday faced blistering criticism over his interview with the newspaper's editorial board , where he seemed unable to go beyond top-level talking points on his core policy issues, like breaking up the big banks. 
  
 In an unusual move, Clinton's campaign sent out the entire Sanders transcript as part of a fundraising email. 
  
 "We've said for a long time that this primary is about who's really going to be able to get things done. And from reading this interview, you get the impression Senator Sanders hasn't thought very much about that. In fact, even on his signature issue of breaking up the banks, he's unable to answer basic questions about how he'd go about doing it, and even seems uncertain whether a president does or doesn't already have that authority under existing law," Clinton aide Christina Reynolds wrote. 
  
 The GOP's battleground woes 
  
 If Gov. Scott Walker's experience of three statewide wins in four years shows anything, it's that Republicans can win in Wisconsin. 
  
 But Cruz and Trump may have an uphill climb in November. 
  
 Exit polls showed that only 62% of Republicans said they'd vote for Trump in the fall. Another 10% said if he's the nominee, they'd support Clinton, while 17% said they'd back a third-party candidate and 8% said they wouldn't vote at all. 
  
 For Cruz, the numbers were similar: 66% said they'd vote for him, while 6% said they'd back Clinton. But 18% said they'd pick a third-party candidate, and another 6% would stay home. 
  
 It's an ominous sign for the fall. Wisconsin isn't a must-win state for a Republican in the general election -- but it is winnable, and, like Illinois, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, it's home to a vulnerable senator (Ron Johnson) who the GOP hopes will be part of a governing majority next year. 
  
 Those exit poll numbers are, in theory, good for John Kasich , because they bolster his argument that he's the only electable Republican left standing. 
  
 But the Ohio governor has his own problems. The same factors that hurt Trump -- Wisconsin is highly educated and less angry -- should have helped Kasich. Yet he finished a distant third, once again failing to lend any credibility to his case for staying in the race. |||||