Loren Genson and Nick Glunt | The Gazette 
  
 HOMER TOWNSHIP — Neither the 10-year-old daughter who was ordered by a court to continue cancer treatments against her will nor the rest of her Amish family has been seen since at least last month. 
  
 Sarah Hershberger and her parents, Andy and Anna, were not at their Homer Township farm Oct. 30, when Medina County sheriff’s deputies accompanied county Job and Family Services officials on a welfare check. 
  
 County Sheriff Tom Miller said his office has no idea where the Hershbergers might be and is not actively searching for the family. 
  
 “It would take a court order for us to get involved,” Miller said, “and I’m not anticipating a court order.” 
  
 In October, an appellate court granted a request from Akron Children’s Hospital to appoint “limited guardianship” to registered nurse and attorney Maria Schimer granting Schimer the power to make medical decisions for the girl in place of her parents. 
  
 Clair Dickinson, an attorney representing Schimer, said he didn’t know the family’s whereabouts. 
  
 “All I know is that she and her parents don’t seem to be at her house,” he said. 
  
 He said the family was not present at a court hearing in October, and the last time anyone saw the family was during the summer. He said the girl received her last treatment at the hospital in June. Physicians said in court that without chemotherapy the girl would die within a year. With treatment, she has an 85 percent chance of survival. 
  
 Dickinson said there was no effort on behalf of Schimer to seek a court action to find the family or press charges against them for not providing health care. When asked if he thought court action might be taken, he said couldn’t comment. 
  
 John Oberholtzer, the Hershbergers’ attorney, said he does not know where the family is, but he’s kept in contact because of an appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court to overturn the appellate court’s ruling. 
  
 “I am certainly in contact with my client,” Oberholtzer said. “And they’re certainly knowing of what I’m doing in the case.” 
  
 Oberholtzer said he’s not sure whether the girl has sought therapy elsewhere. 
  
 A neighbor answered the door at the Hershbergers’ home Tuesday on Spencer Road and suggested speaking with Alvin Keim, a relative. Another neighbor said Keim had just left for a funeral in New York, and would not return until Thursday. 
  
 The case began in April, when Sarah was admitted to Akron Children’s Hospital with T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma, a rare form of cancer. 
  
 Her parents initially accepted chemotherapy for their daughter, according to court records, but stopped it once they saw the side effects it had on the girl. Instead they began using “natural” medicine — including vitamins and herbs. 
  
 The hospital responded by filing a suit in Medina County Probate Court that asked Schimer be named as the girl’s guardian. The case bounced between county and appellate courts several times before Oct. 9, when Probate Judge Kevin W. Dunn obeyed an order from the 9th District Court of Appeals to grant guardianship to Schimer. 
  
 While attorneys continue battle, the Hershbergers left their farm to seek other treatment for their daughter. David Augenstein, who publishes the online Journal of Natural Food and Health, said he had spoken to the family this month. 
  
 He said the family had left the U.S. to seek alternative treatment in late September. He said they have since returned but haven’t gone back to their farm for fear their daughter will be forced into treatment by the hospital. 
  
 “I can’t tell you where they’re at, but they’ll call periodically from an undisclosed location using someone else’s phone,” Augenstein said. “I know they are in the United States.” 
  
 Augenstein, who lives in the Canton area, said he first reached out to the family after seeing their story published in local news media. 
  
 “One of the big issues in this case is not just parental rights — not just about Sarah — but that this opens the door for these hospitals to create a lot of fear in the parents if you don’t obey their orders,” said Augenstein, who is a self-described advocate for parents’ choice in vaccinating their children. 
  
 He regularly writes and reports on parental medical choice issues in his online journal. He also serves as the co-director of the Foundations of Health Education, which has set up a fund to help the girl’s family pay for her treatments. 
  
 “This case is not just about Sarah and her cancer treatment,” he said in a press release. “It is about the right for anyone to obtain a second opinion and the freedom to choose you own medical treatments without fear of losing your child. 
  
 “It is about using the interpretation of law by powerful and profitable corporations like hospitals to force their beliefs in their expensive medical treatments on people who do not want them.” 
  
 Augenstein said he plans to follow the case pending before the state Supreme Court. 
  
 “They’re violating her constitutional rights,” he said of Akron Children’s Hospital. “It’s not really the loving, healing and caring image the hospital wants to portray.” 
  
 Representatives from Akron Children’s Hospital asked for questions in writing following phone calls on Tuesday seeking comment. As of Tuesday evening, they had not responded to emailed questions. 
  
 Reporter Kiera Manion-Fischer contributed to this story. Contact reporter Loren Genson at (330) 721-4063 or lgenson@medina-gazette.com. Contact reporter Nick Glunt at (330) 721-4048 or nglunt@medina-gazette.com. ||||| A 10-year-old Amish girl with leukemia and her parents have fled their home in Ohio, leaving the United States at one point, so that she won't be forced into resuming chemotherapy treatments, the family's attorney said Wednesday. 
  
 The family has been fighting a hospital in court for months after the parents decided to halt the treatments because they were making the girl sick. 
  
 They left their home in rural northeast Ohio just days before a state appeals court appointed a guardian in October to take over medical decisions for the Sarah Hershberger, said attorney Maurice Thompson. 
  
 "They don't want Sarah to be taken away," he said. 
  
 Doctors at Akron Children's Hospital believe Sarah's leukemia is treatable, but say she will die without chemotherapy. The hospital went to court after the family decided to stop chemotherapy and treat Sarah with natural medicines, such as herbs and vitamins. 
  
 An appeals court ruling in October gave an attorney who's also a registered nurse limited guardianship over Sarah and the power to make medical decisions for her. The court said the beliefs and convictions of her parents can't outweigh the rights of the state to protect the child. 
  
 The family has appealed the decision to both the appeals court and the Ohio Supreme Court. They also plan to file a motion to terminate the guardianship. 
  
 They have not had any contact with the guardian since the ruling, said Clair Dickinson, the guardian's attorney. 
  
 A taxi was sent to the family's home nearly two months ago after the guardian was appointed to take the Sarah to the hospital in Akron, but someone at the home said the family was not there, Dickinson said. 
  
 There are no plans to ask the court to find the family or force the girl into chemotherapy while the case is being appealed, he said. 
  
 He said Sarah's last known chemotherapy session was in June, and that doctors have said she could die within a year if treatments don't resume. 
  
 The girl has undergone alternative-therapy treatments and is doing well, Thompson said. The family told him that she has more energy and that CT scans show the treatments are working. 
  
 Thompson, who leads the libertarian 1851 Center for Constitutional Law in Ohio, said he believes that the case is an example of the courts trampling on the rights of parents and freedom to refuse medical treatment. 
  
 State laws give parents a great deal of freedom when it comes to choosing medical treatment for their children, but not always when the decision could be a matter of life or death. 
  
 While these disputes are rare, they most often come up when a parent objects to treatment because of a religious belief or because they want to use natural medicines instead of chemotherapy, which some holistic practitioners oppose because of the chemicals that kill cancerous and healthy cells. 
  
 A mom fled Minnesota with her 13-year-old son in 2009 during a court battle over whether he should be forced to continue chemotherapy. She wanted her son's cancer treated with natural healing methods, but the two returned after about a week and the boy underwent court-ordered chemo. 
  
 Andy Hershberger, the Ohio girl's father, said this past summer that the family agreed to begin two years of treatments for Sarah last spring but stopped a second round of chemotherapy in June because it was making her extremely sick. 
  
 Sarah begged her parents to stop the chemo and they agreed after a great deal of prayer, Hershberger said. The family, members of an insular Amish community, shuns many facets of modern life and is deeply religious. They live on a farm and operate a produce stand near the village of Spencer in Medina County, about 35 miles southwest of Cleveland. 
  
 Hospital officials have said they are morally and legally obligated to make sure the girl receives proper care. They said the girl's illness, lymphoblastic lymphoma, is an aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, but there is a high survival rate with treatment. |||||