Longtime Fox News contributor and fill-in host Laura Ingraham is in line for her own show on the channel, possibly in a key prime time hour. 
  
 On Monday a source with knowledge of the matter told CNN that there are talks underway between Ingraham and Fox executives, but no decisions have been finalized. 
  
 The addition of an Ingraham talk show could be part of a bigger-picture reshuffling of Fox News Channel's highly rated schedule. 
  
 A Fox spokeswoman declined to comment and Ingraham did not respond to a request for comment. 
  
 Ingraham has been a paid contributor to Fox News since 2007. The show that's been discussed would be a big promotion. 
  
 Matt Drudge, who is well-sourced in conservative media circles, spurred intrigue about potential changes when he tweeted this on Monday: "FALL PREVIEW: Laura Ingraham's prime time to shine! After years in the trenches, much deserved." 
  
 Drudge got tongues wagging, which may have been his goal. 
  
 The prime time hours on cable news are 8, 9 and 10 p.m. When Megyn Kelly left for NBC in January, Tucker Carlson took over her 9 p.m. time slot. 
  
 Then in April when Bill O'Reilly was removed amid a sexual harassment scandal, Carlson moved into O'Reilly's 8 p.m. time slot and the channel's 5 p.m. conservative talk show "The Five" moved to 9 p.m. Sean Hannity remained in place at 10 p.m. 
  
 Now there is speculation inside and outside Fox that another schedule shake-up is in the works. 
  
 The cable news channel seems to be exploring programming options in the event that Eric Bolling does not return. Bolling is the centerpiece of the 5 p.m. show that was created when "The Five" moved to 9. It is called "Fox News Specialists." 
  
 Earlier this month Bolling was suspended pending a probe into accusations that he sent lewd texts to colleagues, which he has denied. 
  
 If Fox News executives need to replace "The Specialists," "The Five" could be shifted back to its original 5 p.m. time slot. Then Ingraham could take over at 9 p.m. 
  
 Alternatively, Hannity could move up one hour to 9, and Ingraham could take over at 10. 
  
 Or maybe Fox executives have something in mind that nobody else has thought of yet. 
  
 Along with the Bolling suspension, another subplot is the ratings race between Fox and MSNBC. The MSNBC host Rachel Maddow has snapped Fox's winning streak in the 9 p.m. hour. 
  
 So Fox executives are asking themselves: Would Ingraham be a better match against Maddow than "The Five" currently is? 
  
 Ingraham is a vocal supporter of President Trump, just like some of the co-hosts of "The Five." 
  
 She is already a popular radio talk show host, with a three-hour morning time slot on stations across the country. She also operates a conservative-themed news and features site called LifeZette. ||||| Fox News Channel is in discussions with the conservative radio host Laura Ingraham that could result in her coming to the 21st Century Fox-owned cable-news network as a regular host, a person familiar with the outlet’s plans confirmed early Tuesday. 
  
 The two sides are believed to be in early talks, and no decision has been made regarding the time slot Ingraham might anchor, or even when she might join the company in the new role. No deal has been signed, and there is no sense at this time when one might come to fruition, this person said. She already serves as a Fox News contributor. 
  
 Revelation of the talks, which surfaced Monday on The Drudge Report and were further detailed by CNN, show Fox News Channel continuing to mull tinkering with its program line-up as it grapples in real time to find alternatives for hosts who have come under recent fire. Fox News replaced mainstay Bill O’Reilly in April after he parted ways over advertiser reaction to disclosures of settlements paid to women who had accused him of sexual harassment and other improprieties. 
  
 The network’s current primetime lineup features Tucker Carlson at 8 p.m, the panel show “The Five” at 9 p.m., and Sean Hannity at 10 p.m. And though Fox News remains cable’s most-watched news network, it has had to contend with a resurgent MSNBC, where a primetime lineup led by Rachel Maddow has expanded its audience. 
  
 Related Fox, Major League Baseball Strike New Rights Pact Official Name of New Fox Is, Uh, Fox -- and Other Takeaways From Annual Stockholders Meeting 
  
 Ingraham has a long association with Fox News, having served as a fill-in for both Hannity and O’Reilly. Executives at the network have remained open to the idea of tweaking its primetime lineup, Fox News co-president Jack Abernethy told Variety in July. 
  
 Fox News is also mulling talent options due to the recent suspension of Eric Bolling, the former commodities trader who served as co-host on the late-afternoon program “Fox News Specialists,” this person confirmed. Bolling was suspended earlier this month, when Fox News said it planned to investigate recent allegations made in a Huffington Post report that Bolling may have sexually harassed colleagues. Bolling has denied the charges and said he intends to clear his name. ||||| Fox News is not commenting, but people familiar with the talks who were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly said Ingraham is seen as a compatible fit between the network's conservative prime-time hosts Tucker Carlson and Sean Hannity. Under that scenario, the roundtable show "The Five" -- which moved to 9 p.m. Eastern time when the network had to shuffle its program line-up after Bill O'Reilly exited in April -- would move back to its original time slot of 5 p.m. Eastern to make room for Ingraham. |||||