Halle Berry Says No More Marriages 
  
 Though she's been dating model Gabriel Aubry for more than a year, Halle Berry says she doesn't plan to walk down the aisle with him – or anybody."I will never, never get married again," the Oscar winner, 40, says in the April issue of InStyle "Actually it's just that now I've come to a place where I think two people can share their lives without the ring, without the piece of paper."Besides, she's tried to make marriage work – twice. Berry, whose thriller with Bruce Willis, Perfect Stranger, opens April 13, was formerly wed to Atlanta Braves player David Justice and R&B; singer Eric Benét. Both unions ended in divorce.She met Aubry, 31, while shooting a Versace ad in November 2005. They made their public debut as a couple three months later at the opening of a Versace store in New York City."After my last relationship [with actor Michael Ealy] broke up I was feeling like, well, it wasn't that I didn't want to be in a relationship, it's just that I thought it would be okay to be on my own," she tells InStyle."But he was disarmingly sweet and caring and different. In the past I've been attracted to big personalities. Gabriel was shy. He hardly talked to me at first."But that just made him more appealing. "I had to work at this a little," she says. "It wasn't a slam dunk; it wasn't the guy just showering affection on me. It made it more interesting. We were equally matched – put it that way."And the future? Berry, who has said she wants to adopt , tells the magazine: "I definitely want children. Very much."And when she does become a mother, she hopes to pass on some important values."I want my kids to realize it's only through hard work that any success or real joy comes," she says. "It's not about money; it's the intangible rewards – having integrity and doing what you say you're going to do." ||||| The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine 
  
 This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds) 
  
 The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public. |||||