Just One More Thing... 
  
 We have sent you a verification email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your profile. 
  
 If you do not receive the verification message within a few minutes of signing up, please check your Spam or Junk folder. 
  
 Close ||||| "His request was declined as alcohol is a contraband item," the Georgia Department of Corrections said in a statement. 
  
 Johnson, 50, was sentenced to death for the murder of Angela Sizemore, a woman he picked up at a bar in 1994. She was stabbed dozens of times. 
  
 In last-minute appeals, Johnson's lawyers claimed that while he admits having sex with Sizemore, there was not enough evidence to tie him to the killing. 
  
 If it happens, Johnson will be the first inmate Georgia puts to death since Kelly Ann Gissendaner, who was executed in September despite a plea for mercy from Pope Francis. ||||| Marcus Ray Johnson is pictured in this undated booking photo provided by Georgia Department of Corrections. 
  
 ATLANTA An inmate facing execution in Georgia will not be allowed to have a six-pack of beer for his final meal, state prison officials said on Wednesday. 
  
 Death row inmate Marcus Ray Johnson's request was denied because alcohol is considered a contraband item, the Georgia Department of Corrections said in a statement. 
  
 Instead, he will be offered a standard institutional tray of baked fish, cheese grits, dry mixed beans, cole slaw, cornbread, cookies and fruit punch ahead of his execution set for Thursday night, officials said. 
  
 Johnson, 50, was sentenced to death after being convicted of murder in a woman's 1994 fatal stabbing. Angela Sizemore was stabbed 41 times after leaving a bar with Johnson in Albany, Georgia, according to court records. 
  
 Johnson told police he "kind of lost it" when Sizemore became angry with him for refusing to snuggle after they had sex but said he did not remember killing her, court records show. 
  
 His attorneys are fighting his lethal injection, which is set for 7 p.m. on Thursday. 
  
 (Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Andrew Hay) |||||