A tram on the Metrolink line at Withington, Manchester, was damaged by debris after it fell on the line.
No-one was injured during the downpours which saw Manchester fire crews receive 120 emergency calls within two hours.
Areas of Tameside including Stalybridge have been affected. Floods alerts are also in place in Bacup, Lancashire.
The East Didsbury Metrolink line has been suspended for the rest of the day due to the damage caused to the overhead lines.
A spokesman for Transport for Greater Manchester said: "Arrangements have been made for passengers to use their tickets and passes on commercial buses to complete their journeys."
Flash flooding has been reported in Disley, Whaley Bridge, Mossley, Saddleworth and Hyde, with Michael Knight tweeting "Hollingworth, Hyde getting waist deep!"
Dave Twist tweeted: "#stalybridge #millbrook Huddersfield Road cut off completely avoid".
Firefighters also helped rescue dogs from kennels in Mossley, Tameside, after the electrics in the building were affected by water at about 17:20 GMT.
A Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue spokesman said: "In a two-hour period (16:00 to 18:00) 120 emergency calls were made by people - mostly reporting flooding and weather-related issues."
The majority of callers were given advice over the phone but firefighters were called out to a number of incidents.
Where homes were flooded, the fire service urged people to remain indoors.
Elsewhere train services have been disrupted between Leeds and Manchester and Sheffield and Manchester.
The line between Stockport and Sheffield has been closed because of a fallen tree at Edale.
Train operator Northern is also urging people to avoid travelling between Manchester Victoria and Stalybridge or Leeds and between Blackburn and Hebden Bridge or Rochdale.
Rail passengers on TransPennine Express routes were being advised not to travel unless absolutely necessary.
The Met Office has issued a yellow weather warning for rain and wind.
Up to 50mm of rain may fall within a six-hour period and gusts of 40 to 50 mph are likely in places overnight.
The Environment Agency has issued three flood warnings for the River Mersey at Cheadle Wood and Ford Lane, the River Irwell in the centre of Bacup, and another around Stacksteads in Lancashire.