Media playback is not supported on this device
Armson truck twice to put the hosts in control of a thrilling first-round replay, but close-range shots from Jake Hessenthaler and substitute Scott Wagstaff forced extra time.
An own goal by Gills goalkeeper Stuart Nelson made it 3-2 to the hosts.
And Armson's 20-yard effort ensured the win despite a late Cody McDonald goal.
Media playback is not supported on this device
Having scored in the 2-2 draw to force a replay, Armson put his side in front when he smashed in a fine first-time volley from 12 yards.
He followed that up by producing a classy finish with the outside of his right foot to make it 2-0 - a reward for Brackley's impressive start.
But Hessenthaler scored his first FA Cup goal from an acute angle and Wagstaff's strike a minute after coming on seemed to have given the Gills the impetus.
Both sides had chances to win it in normal time but it was Brackley who prevailed in the extra period to set up a second-round trip to League Two side Blackpool.
The win sees the Gills humiliated by the Northamptonshire team for the second time in four seasons, having also been beaten by them at the same stage of the competition in 2013.
Match ends, Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 3.
Second Half Extra Time ends, Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 3.
Attempt missed. Billy Knott (Gillingham) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Scott Wagstaff.
Foul by Adedeji Oshilaja (Gillingham).
Gareth Dean (Brackley Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Max Ehmer (Gillingham).
Matt Lowe (Brackley Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. David Moyo (Brackley Town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Matt Lowe following a fast break.
Jake Hessenthaler (Gillingham) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Adam Walker (Brackley Town).
Josh Wright (Gillingham) is shown the yellow card.
James Armson (Brackley Town) is shown the yellow card.
Josh Wright (Gillingham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by James Armson (Brackley Town).
Foul by Scott Wagstaff (Gillingham).
Matt Lowe (Brackley Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Goal!  Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 3. Cody McDonald (Gillingham) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the centre of the goal.
Foul by Ryan Jackson (Gillingham).
David Moyo (Brackley Town) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Adedeji Oshilaja (Gillingham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Matt Lowe (Brackley Town).
Scott Wagstaff (Gillingham) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Scott Wagstaff (Gillingham).
Ellis Myles (Brackley Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Josh Wright (Gillingham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Matt Lowe (Brackley Town).
Attempt saved. David Moyo (Brackley Town) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Matt Lowe.
Second Half Extra Time begins Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 2.
First Half Extra Time ends, Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 2.
Goal!  Brackley Town 4, Gillingham 2. James Armson (Brackley Town) right footed shot from outside the box to the top right corner.
Scott Wagstaff (Gillingham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by David Moyo (Brackley Town).
Substitution, Brackley Town. Matt Lowe replaces Lee Ndlovu.
Offside, Gillingham. Jake Hessenthaler tries a through ball, but Rory Donnelly is caught offside.
Attempt saved. Jake Hessenthaler (Gillingham) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Adedeji Oshilaja.
Corner,  Gillingham. Conceded by Ellis Myles.
Attempt saved. David Moyo (Brackley Town) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Shane Byrne.
Corner,  Brackley Town. Conceded by Scott Wagstaff.
Attempt blocked. Lee Ndlovu (Brackley Town) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by David Moyo with a cross.
Offside, Brackley Town. James Armson tries a through ball, but Lee Ndlovu is caught offside.