Image caption The scene of the blasts has been cleaned and handed back to the city 
  
 US security officials have been questioned by Congress over whether they mishandled information about the Boston bomb suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev. 
  
 The Senate Intelligence Committee is investigating whether the FBI failed to act on Russian concerns that Tsarnaev was becoming radicalised. 
  
 Tsarnaev was questioned in 2011 amid claims he had adopted radical Islam. 
  
 At a closed hearing, senators said steps could be taken to improve information sharing between agencies. 
  
 Tsarnaev was killed in a manhunt after the attacks on 15 April. His brother Dzhokhar, was wounded but survived, and has been charged over the bombings. 
  
 The Beth Israel Deaconess hospital in Massachusetts said at noon on Tuesday that the surviving brother's condition had improved from "serious" to "fair", according to the US Attorney's Office in Boston. 
  
 'Serious problems' 
  
 The Tsarnaev brothers had origins in the troubled, predominantly Muslim republic of Chechnya in southern Russia. They had been living in the US for about a decade at the time of the attack. 
  
 Questions for the FBI Why was no further action taken after the 2011 investigation of Tamerlan Tsarnaev? 
  
 Why was he not identified as a threat based on links to radical websites? 
  
 Why were the authorities unaware of his visit to Russia in 2012? Q&A: Possible FBI failings 
  
 Members of Congress want to know why no further action was taken after Tamerlan Tsarnaev was investigated in 2011 at the request of the Russian government. 
  
 In 2012 he travelled to Russia, and spent six months in Dagestan, another mainly Muslim Russian republic bordering Chechnya. During the visit, he also reportedly spent two days in Chechnya itself. 
  
 Republican Senator Lindsey Graham had questioned why the FBI was unable to identify him as a threat based on his alleged links to radical websites. 
  
 He called for better co-operation with Russia and the amendment of privacy laws to allow closer scrutiny of suspects' internet activity. 
  
 Speaking after the Intelligence Committee hearing in Washington, Republican Senator Susan Collins said there appeared to be "serious problems with sharing information, including critical investigative information ... not only among agencies but also within the same agency in one case", the Associated Press reports. 
  
 The vice-chairman of the committee, Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss, said he could not see "anybody yet that dropped the ball", but that he was still seeking information on whether information was properly shared. 
  
 "If it wasn't, we've got to fix this," AP quoted him as saying. 
  
 The FBI has defended itself, saying in a statement on Friday that it had run checks on the suspect but found no evidence of terrorist activity. 
  
 It said a request to Russia for further information to justify more rigorous checks went unanswered, and an interview by agents with Tsarnaev and his family also revealed nothing suspicious. 
  
 In a separate hearing on Tuesday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said the FBI had been aware of Tamerlan Tsarnaev's trip to Russia, contradicting Senator Graham's allegation that the trip had been overlooked because his name had been misspelled in travel documents. 
  
 'Internet-devised attack' 
  
 The twin bombs which exploded near the finishing line of the marathon killed three people and injured more than 200, many of them seriously. 
  
 On Tuesday, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino announced that a compensation fund for victims of the attack had received $20m (£13.2m) in the week since it was launched, with donations streaming in from Boston and across the world. 
  
 On Monday, a 10-page criminal complaint was filed against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev during a court hearing around his hospital bed. 
  
 Federal prosecutors have charged him with using a weapon of mass destruction and malicious destruction of property resulting in death. He could be sentenced to death if convicted on either count. 
  
 According to a transcript of the hearing, he managed to speak once despite a gunshot wound to his throat sustained during his capture. 
  
 Mr Tsarnaev said the word "no" when asked if he could afford a lawyer. Otherwise he nodded in response to Judge Marianne Bowler's questions from his bed at Boston's Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. 
  
 The next hearing in his case has been scheduled for the end of May. 
  
 The complaint seeks to locate both suspects at the scene of the bombing and then pieces together the operation to intercept them three days later, as they allegedly drove a hijacked car near the city, hours after images of their faces were broadcast by the media. 
  
 No mention is made of their possible reasons for attacking the marathon. 
  
 Anonymous officials have told US media that 19-year-old Dzhokhar Tsarnaev said he and his brother had planned the attack themselves without help from foreign militants. 
  
 Media caption Witness describes watching Boston gun battle from his window 
  
 The officials say his written answers from his hospital bed to investigators' questions lead them to believe that the pair were motivated by jihadist ideology and that they devised the bombings using the internet. 
  
 However, the sources also said the interviews were preliminary and they must verify the defendant's responses. 
  
 Lawyers for Katherine Russell, the widow of 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, said that their client was doing everything she could to assist authorities. 
  
 She is "trying to come to terms with these events", her lawyers said in a statement on Tuesday, without saying whether she had been questioned by investigators. 
  
 "The report of involvement by her husband and brother-in-law came as an absolute shock to them all." ||||| Story highlights Former official: FBI uses "triage" approach in checking out possible terror links 
  
 Sen. Feinstein says the intelligence committee will hold a hearing as soon as Tuesday 
  
 The FBI interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev before he traveled to Russia last year 
  
 Some legislators question why Tsarnaev wasn't questioned again on his return 
  
 When Russia asked the FBI in 2011 to check out Tamerlan Tsarnaev because of his shift toward increasing Islamic extremism, the bureau interviewed him and his family as part of a review that found no ties to terrorism. 
  
 Two years later, Tsarnaev, 26, and his younger brother allegedly set off two bombs at the Boston Marathon that killed three people, then killed a university police officer and sparked a manhunt that paralyzed the city last week. 
  
 Now members of Congress want to know how someone who was brought to the attention of authorities and who exhibited increasingly radical leanings never came under further monitoring or questioning. 
  
 Sen. Dianne Feinstein announced Monday that the Senate Intelligence Committee she heads will look into the FBI's handling of Tsarnaev. 
  
 The hearing with FBI intelligence officials, expected to be closed to the public and media, could happen as soon as Tuesday, said Feinstein, D-California. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Did the FBI drop the ball? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Did the FBI drop the ball? 04:57 
  
 JUST WATCHED Boston bombings case one week later Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Boston bombings case one week later 03:58 
  
 JUST WATCHED McCaul: Boston suspect was radicalized Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH McCaul: Boston suspect was radicalized 06:00 
  
 JUST WATCHED 'The ball was dropped' on Boston suspect Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 'The ball was dropped' on Boston suspect 07:33 
  
 An aide to the House Homeland Security Committee said its chairman, Republican Rep. Mike McCaul of Texas, also intended for the panel to examine the issue. 
  
 The Tsarnaev case raised questions about the efficiency of overall security efforts, particularly involving people brought to the attention of federal authorities. 
  
 Tsarnaev, who died after a shootout with police on Thursday night, was an immigrant from the volatile Caucasus region of southwest Russia who had legal residence in the United States and sought last year to become fully naturalized, like his brother Dzhokhar, 19. 
  
 However, the Department of Homeland Security rejected the citizenship request due to his past questioning by the FBI before a trip to Russia. 
  
 An FBI statement said a foreign government -- later identified by legislators as Russia -- asked for information on Tsarnaev "was based on information that he was a follower of radical Islam and a strong believer, and that he had changed drastically since 2010 as he prepared to leave the United States for travel to the country's region to join unspecified underground groups." 
  
 In response, the FBI said, it "checked U.S. government databases and other information to look for such things as derogatory telephone communications, possible use of online sites associated with the promotion of radical activity, associations with other persons of interest, travel history and plans, and education history." 
  
 "The FBI also interviewed Tamerlan Tsarnaev and family members," it said in the statement on Friday. "The FBI did not find any terrorism activity, domestic or foreign, and those results were provided to the foreign government in the summer of 2011." 
  
 In addition, the FBI "requested but did not receive more specific or additional information from the foreign government," its statement said. 
  
 That failed to satisfy Feinstein and other legislators. 
  
 "I have asked the staff director of Intelligence this morning to set a hearing, particularly with FBI intelligence," Feinstein told CNN on Monday, adding she hoped for answers about what Tsarnaev did during the trip. 
  
 JUST WATCHED What FBI knew about suspect #1 in 2011 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What FBI knew about suspect #1 in 2011 02:05 
  
 JUST WATCHED FBI wants to talk with suspect's widow Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH FBI wants to talk with suspect's widow 02:31 
  
 JUST WATCHED New photos of bombing suspects Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH New photos of bombing suspects 01:01 
  
 JUST WATCHED Doctor treated Boston suspects, victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Doctor treated Boston suspects, victims 03:55 
  
 "And when he came back to this country, why didn't it ring a bell with the FBI intelligence unit that he should be checked out and vetted again?" she asked. 
  
 Feinstein also noted that Homeland Security officials later denied Tsarnaev's application for citizenship, raising another question about who knew what about him. 
  
 The purpose of the hearing was "not to criticize, because I am a big fan of the FBI's, but to go back and see that we plug loopholes," Feinstein said. 
  
 Tsarnaev, who's ethnically Chechen but came to the United States from Kyrgyzstan, spent six months in Russia, causing some legislators and analysts to speculate he may have received training during the trip. 
  
 Conservative Sen. Lindsey Graham, who said Sunday the FBI may have dropped the ball in its investigation of Tsarnaev, began easing off that claim on Monday. 
  
 The South Carolina Republican confirmed he talked to the assistant director of the FBI and learned how the bureau interviewed Tsarnaev, his parents and classmates in 2011. 
  
 "They put his name through the system and they sent back this information to the Russians and said, 'Do you have anything else?' And they never got a reply back," Graham said. 
  
 Graham also noted that Tsarnaev wasn't flagged upon returning from Russia because of an apparent misspelling of his name by the Russian airline Aeroflot. 
  
 "It didn't get into the system because of a misspelling," Graham said. "Now whether or not he intentionally changed his name or Aeroflot just got the spelling wrong, I don't know. That's to be determined." 
  
 As for apparent warning signs that occurred within the last year, such as YouTube postings of radical Islamists, Graham said the FBI told him "they have limitations on what they can do." 
  
 "So maybe it's the system failed, didn't provide the FBI with the tools, or maybe they didn't use it properly," he added. "That's why maybe we need to find out what happened." 
  
 His comments sounded similar to those made by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, who defended the FBI on Sunday. 
  
 Rogers told NBC the agency "did their due diligence" but Russian authorities "stopped cooperating" when the United States sought further clarification. Rogers also said he believed Tsarnaev may have traveled overseas using an alias. 
  
 CNN law enforcement analyst Tom Fuentes, a former FBI official, said there was little the bureau could do once Russia failed to respond to its request for further details. 
  
 "If they don't give you more, then everything that can be done has been done unless you know that there should be more to the story," Fuentes said. 
  
 He detailed how the FBI employs what amounts to "triage" to deal with what he said were tens of thousands of similar inquiries a year that require some level of bureau investigation. 
  
 "If you are getting this from a hot place like Afghanistan or the tribal area of Pakistan or places where we have had specific training camps and people deployed on purpose to come and attack us, then that is the highest priority," he said. "And even there, many of the people that go back and forth are visiting family. I mean, they are not always going back to be trained to be terrorists or always going back for refresher courses on terrorism." 
  
 Regarding Russia, Fuentes noted the ongoing conflict with Chechen separatists that may have caused Moscow's request for information on Tsarnaev. 
  
 "That's been an ongoing fight, but it's been localized," he said, adding that he couldn't recall a case in which a Chechen trained at home came to attack the United States. 
  
 However, Fuentes noted that al Qaeda had sent people to the Caucasus region for training that included bomb building. 
  
 Now U.S. investigators need to find out if the Tsarnaevs "had connections, were they deployed by a bigger group, and are there other terrorists in the United States," Fuentes said. 
  
 "Are there other explosive devices hidden somewhere or booby traps created, a cache of weapons?" he wondered. "That'll be the task." |||||