
  
 Bill Cosby at the National Action Network’s 20th annual Keepers of the Dream Awards gala in New York in 2011. (Lucas Jackson/Reuters) 
  
 He wanted to dine in his dressing room with young fashion models. But not just any girls. He had a specific type in mind. 
  
 They should be from out-of-town and “financially not doing well,” Bill Cosby told Sue Charney, a New York modeling agency owner. Not making it big yet, but full of potential. 
  
 “It’s a very, very good meal, probably better than anything they’ve had the time that they’re in New York,” Cosby boasts during a lengthy decade-old deposition in a lawsuit filed against him by a woman who had accused him of drugging and sexually assaulting her. 
  
 Getting to eat with Bill Cosby at the New York studio where “The Cosby Show” was being filmed would be like “a present” for the models, he says, a treat that would help Charney keep them as clients. 
  
 One of the women who attended those dinners in the late 1980s, an aspiring teenage actress named Jennifer Thompson, would later accuse Cosby of pressuring her to have sex with him at his New York home, even after he’d assured her parents that he’d help her adjust to life in the city. Cosby, under questioning during the deposition, admitted to having sexual contact but said it was consensual. 
  
 The dressing-room dinners where Cosby entertained Thompson are one setting in a kind of parallel world of pursuit, seduction and clandestine sex that the comedian constructed as he was also crafting a public image as the ultimate family man and a rumpled, comic father figure. In more than 900 pages of deposition transcripts, a profile comes into focus of a man who for decades used his celebrity status to pursue women looking for mentors and eager for help in their careers. 
  
 Prior to the deposition’s release, Cosby had rarely publicly addressed the claims of his accusers. Now his own words have provided a detailed excursion into the hidden life of a world-famous public figure. 
  
 [Cosby’s legacy, recast: Accusers speak in detail about sexual-assault allegations] 
  
 Cosby sketches the outlines of a loosely connected network of people he taps to directly or indirectly support his extramarital “rendezvous” and keep sexual-assault accusations secret. Among those were lawyers who could quash unfavorable news stories or pressure media organizations and modeling agency directors who introduced him to women. There’s also a doctor who prescribes Quaaludes that Cosby admits to giving to one woman who later accused him of sexual assault, as well as to other women. 
  
 1 of 28 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Bill Cosby’s life and career View Photos Photos of significant events, people and professional achievements. Caption Photos of significant events, people and professional achievements. Before he was America’s dad, Bill Cosby embodied the hippest of the ’60s and ’70s. Those wild days clash with the image Cosby has had for over 30 years, and they have been cast in a very different light as over a dozen women have recently told or retold stories of alleged abuse at the hands of Cosby. Ethan Miller/Getty Images Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
  
 Cosby’s deposition took place over four days in September 2005 and March 2006 at the Rittenhouse Hotel, an elegant spot on one of Philadelphia’s toniest squares. He was answering questions in a lawsuit alleging sexual assault filed by Andrea Constand, a former basketball operations manager at Temple University, where Cosby was a longtime member of the board of trustees and one of the university’s most public faces. The case was eventually settled, and the deposition did not become public until reports this month by the Associated Press and the New York Times. The Washington Post purchased a copy of the full deposition transcript from the court reporter. 
  
 Cosby has been publicly accused of sexual assault by more than 40 women, with allegations that date as far back as the 1960s. Many of those women say he drugged them. He has never admitted to sexual assault or been charged criminally. 
  
 In the deposition, Cosby talks about using promises of payments to appease women with whom he had sex or to dissuade them from talking. He sometimes sets up elaborate monetary reward systems, including offering to pay one of his future sexual-assault accusers — Therese Serignese — $500 for every “A” grade she got at nursing school. Many years after making that promise, he says he sent her a check for $5,000. He also funneled another $5,000 to her through his William Morris talent agent, Tom Illius, who is now deceased. 
  
 With Constand, he offered to pay for graduate school and campus housing, but there was a catch: “We will pick up the tab,” he said, “but she must maintain a 3.0 GPA.” And he would need to hide the payments from his wife, Camille Cosby. Constand didn’t take him up on the offer, though. 
  
 Cosby conjures his own vernacular to describe his sexual encounters, and when recalling a night with Constand, he calls himself “one of the greatest storytellers in the world.” At one point, he seems to map a woman’s body, as if he were a sexual cartographer, speaking of the “question zone” (her stomach, just above the top of her pants) and a place “somewhere between permission and rejection” (between her legs). 
  
 He presents himself as an instructor with some women, recounting how he would walk them through relaxation exercises in which they would imagine themselves “floating.” 
  
 Cosby’s personal code of conduct dictates that he not kiss and tell, he says. He learned as a boy that girls always say, “Please, don’t tell anybody.” But as an adult, he says, he’s learned that women are “the first people to go and tell somebody after something has happened.” 
  
 His strictures delve into matters as delicate as whether to have intercourse with one of his accusers — he doesn’t, he says, because intercourse makes women form emotional attachments. 
  
 “The act of the penile entrance is something that I feel the woman will succumb to more of a romance and more of a feeling, not love, but it’s deeper than a playful situation.” 
  
 Cosby portrays his relationships with most of the women as mere sexual encounters rather than love affairs. In one instance, he says, “I didn’t ask her to stay all night and she didn’t ask if she could stay all night. . . . I don’t think there was any spirit in what had happened of wanting to stay all night.” 
  
 In describing his wild 1970s days, Cosby recounts how he got prescriptions for Quaaludes seven times but not for his own use. He wants to give them to women with whom he wants to have sex. He keeps them on hand to offer “the same as a person would say have a drink.” 
  
 In his telling, Cosby is a master seducer, a knower of women’s thoughts. “I’m a pretty decent reader of people and their emotions in these romantic sexual things, whatever you want to call them,” he testified. 
  
 The questioning in the Constand case put Cosby in the same room with his accuser. He watched as Constand cried while testifying. Asked by Constand’s lawyer, Dolores Troiani, what he was thinking at that moment, he says: “I think Andrea is a liar and I know she’s a liar because I was there.” He suggests she times her tears to coincide with her testimony about “the touching.” 
  
 Far from being reluctant, Cosby often speaks expansively about his sexual encounters, including his contact with Constand when he was in his mid-60s and she was in her late 20s and early 30s. While describing his attempt to seduce Constand, he balks when her attorney interrupts. 
  
 “Don’t rush it,” he says before continuing to describe a scene in which he eventually pulls back Constand’s hair and bids her to press her body against his. 
  
 Cosby’s wit made him one of the world’s best known entertainers, but the transcript shows that his occasional attempts at humor during the deposition fall flat from the beginning. During the opening moments of his first day of questioning, Constand’s attorney tries to instruct him to answer orally — not with gestures. 
  
 Troiani: Will you try to remember that, please. 
  
 Cosby: (Witness gestures.) 
  
 Troiani: Everyone does the exact same thing. 
  
 “This is not a new joke?” Cosby responds. 
  
 “No, it’s not a new joke,” Troiani shoots back. “In fact, most times it’s not a joke at all.” 
  
 Later, Troiani chides him, saying, “I think you’re making light of a very serious situation.” 
  
 “That very well may be,” Cosby tells her. 
  
 Yet, at other times, Cosby sounds stilted and cautious. 
  
 “It was the night of the alleged inappropriate touching,” he says in reference to one sexual encounter with Constand. 
  
 In another lengthy exchange, Cosby argues over the definition of “masturbation.” 
  
 New documents show Bill Cosby admitted to giving quaaludes to at least one woman, before sex. The sexual assault allegations he faces have impacted his career and image. ( Jhaan Elker / The Washington Post) 
  
 He denies knowing a “Jane Doe” accuser — one of 13 supporting Constand’s case — who said she tried to leave a party at Cosby’s home after he allegedly tried to fondle her. But an assistant of the comedian’s warns he will be “angry and never help her career.” 
  
 He also disputes the claims of another Jane Doe, who says Cosby insisted that she take Quaaludes before she could come into the Atlantic City penthouse where he was staying. The same woman says he paid her gym membership after suggesting she lose weight. 
  
 Cosby says he got prescription Quaaludes in the 1970s from Leroy Amar, a Los Angeles doctor who is now dead, ostensibly to treat a bad back. When asked, the comedian acknowledges that he got the powerful drug to give to women he “wanted to have sex with.” But Cosby says he gave Quaaludes to only one of the Jane Does: Therese Picking, a young woman he met backstage at a club in Las Vegas in 1976 and says he had sex with her that same night. 
  
 “She became in those days what we called high,” he says. 
  
 Asked whether she was “unsteady,” Cosby says, “Yes.” 
  
 Picking, whose last name is now Serignese, has an ongoing defamation lawsuit against Cosby. She has said that she was not able to consent to intercourse because of the effects of the drug. Cosby says he doesn’t know whether she was in a position to consent. 
  
 This week, after the release of the deposition, Cosby’s attorneys said in a court filing that media accounts make it seem as if Cosby “has admitted to rape.” 
  
 “And yet defendant admitted to nothing more than being one of the many people who introduced quaaludes into their consensual sex life in the 1970’s,” wrote Patrick O’Connor and George Gowen, noting that the drug was once called “disco biscuits.” 
  
 Cosby’s comedy career took him to clubs throughout the country, and he says during the deposition that he was in Denver when he met Jo Farrell, a modeling agency owner. Like Charney, the New York agency head, Farrell also introduced Cosby to young women. (Cosby says Charney, who is now dead, introduced him to 20 or 30 aspiring models. “I don’t think she knew what was going on,” Charney’s sister, Alice Opell, said Wednesday. “She did it as a courtesy he requested, that the models attend the taping.”) 
  
 Two of Farrell’s clients would later accuse him of drugging and sexually assaulting them: Beth Ferrier and Barbara Bowman. 
  
 Cosby acknowledges that he had a sexual relationship with Ferrier, but says he “wasn’t there” in the mid-1980s when she accuses him of drugging her and she says she awoke in a parked car with her top untucked, her bra undone and her clothes a mess. 
  
 In the months leading up to the Constand lawsuit, Cosby’s attorney, Marty Singer, negotiated a deal with the National Enquirer not to print Ferrier’s allegations in return for the comedian granting the tabloid an exclusive interview. Ferrier eventually told her story to People magazine in 2006. 
  
 Her former modeling agency boss, Farrell, is now in her 80s and suffers from dementia, according to her daughter, Kathleen, who said in a recent interview with The Post that her mother knew nothing about the claims of sexual abuse until the People article. 
  
 In the deposition, Cosby describes trying to woo Constand at his suburban Philadelphia home by setting “a romantic atmosphere. . . . Fireplace, food, conversation, dim lights.” He makes sure to have cognac on hand, a drink she told him she likes. He has his private chef prepare meals. 
  
 One night, he says, he sought to test her reaction to his advances, “looking for acceptance or rejection.” 
  
 “I take my hand, put it to her face. . . . I take her hair and I pull it back. . . . And I said to her, come in, meaning her body.” 
  
 “When I said, move closer, move in, she did,” Cosby says. 
  
 At another point, he describes how he feels “that Andrea has a glow about our sexual moment.” 
  
 Yet, they never have intercourse, he testifies, because “Andrea I don’t want to fall in love with me.” 
  
 [In hindsight, Bill Cosby’s old books on love, sex and family are incredibly creepy] 
  
 Constand’s drugging accusations center on an evening she says she spent at Cosby’s home in January 2004. In a court filing, her lawyers said that Cosby gave her what he said was an “herbal medication,” and her “knees began to shake, her limbs felt immobile, she felt dizzy and weak, and she began to feel only barely conscious.” 
  
 In the deposition, Cosby describes the night as a passionate encounter. He says he gave her 1½ Benadryl tablets, after breaking one of the tablets in half, leaving three half tablets. 
  
 “I have three friends for you to make you relax,” he testifies that he told her. 
  
 Later, Cosby has a lengthy phone conversation with her mother. 
  
 “I’m apologizing because I’m thinking this is a dirty old man with a young girl,” he says during the deposition. “I apologized. I said to the mother it was digital penetration.” 
  
 On the call, Cosby says Constand’s mother told him three times that she was living through a “mother’s nightmare.” 
  
 Cosby is sorting through emotions himself. He felt threatened, he testifies, and he had someone at the William Morris agency call to try to arrange a face-to-face meeting with Constand and her mother in Miami, with the comedian covering travel costs. The meeting never happened. 
  
 What Cosby wants from Constand is to feel “trusted,” he testifies. He wants that from all the women who had come forward to accuse him, he says. 
  
 “Do you feel that you are a good person?” Constand’s lawyer asks. 
  
 His answer: “Yes.” |||||  
  
 An advertisement for Dr. LeRoy Amar, possible doctor who worked with Bill Cosby in the 1970's. (Obtained by The Washington Post/Obtained by The Washington Post) 
  
 When Bill Cosby needed Quaaludes to give to women he hoped to have sex with, he knew a doctor to turn to: Leroy Amar, a Hollywood prescriber of the pills that became a popular recreational drug among celebrities and other glitzy party people in the 1970s. 
  
 Cosby’s access to Quaaludes — called “disco biscuits” in those days and known to induce disorientation and euphoria — has drawn new attention after the surfacing of a 10-year-old deposition from a closed sexual-assault civil case against Cosby in Pennsylvania. In the transcript, Cosby says he received seven prescriptions for Quaaludes, all of which were obtained from Amar, a gynecologist, ostensibly for a sore back. 
  
 “Did he know when he gave you those prescriptions that you had no intention of taking them?” a lawyer asked Cosby in the 2005 deposition. 
  
 “Yes,” the entertainer replied. 
  
 “Did you believe at that time that it was illegal for you to dispense those drugs?” 
  
 “Yes,” Cosby answered. 
  
 But for Amar, who earned his medical degree from Howard University in 1963, providing pills under questionable circumstances and skirting the law were not unusual. Whether he practiced in California, New York or at a string of clinics in Maryland, he was constantly in trouble with medical authorities and periodically lost his license. Disciplinary records from those states reveal the wrongdoing of a dangerous doctor who kept moving to stay in business. 
  
 “I would not doubt in a minute that Amar would sign a prescription to give anybody anything they wanted. That’s just the way he was,” said Meldon S. Hollis Jr., a former Washington-area lawyer who once represented the physician and later blamed him for the loss of his law license. “He was unscrupulous.” 
  
 Amar, who also practiced plastic surgery — badly — died in 2002 at age 71. 
  
 In the 1970s, Cosby and Amar moved in the same Hollywood social circles. In his deposition, Cosby said the doctor had an ownership stake in “Club Bayou,” a private social club in Los Angeles that Cosby visited. 
  
 In California, the medical board revoked Amar’s license in 1979 after finding that he acted with gross incompetence and negligence and had “engaged in the most serious misconduct.” In 1985, his license was reinstated under a host of conditions, including that he would never again perform surgery. But he failed to pay his licensing fees and never practiced in California again, records show. 
  
 The disciplinary documents reveal harrowing details of numerous plastic surgeries gone awry, including one woman whose implant ripped through her stitches and protruded from her breast as she developed a 102-degree fever and an infection. In another case, no one was available to administer general anesthesia, so Amar performed breast surgery with only a local numbing agent. 
  
 But Cosby’s deposition also reveals a chivalrous side of Amar: a man who confronted the comedian about his alleged inappropriate behavior with Tamara Green, a young woman whom the doctor introduced to Cosby. 
  
 An attorney for plaintiff Andrea Constand poses several questions to Cosby about Green, an aspiring singer and model who later publicly accused Cosby of drugging and sexually assaulting her. 
  
 In the deposition, Cosby repeatedly says he did not know Green and had no recollection of meeting her during a singing audition that she said had been arranged by Amar. The attorney goes on to say that Amar was furious to later hear from Green that Cosby had given her wine and made her feel “very uncomfortable” by asking her to speak song lyrics directly into his face. 
  
 “In her presence, Amar confronted Cosby, almost coming to blows,” the attorney recounts. “He warned Cosby never to do anything like that again to Green.” 
  
 Cosby denied that any of these events happened. 
  
 Cosby’s attorneys asserted this week that the media had mischaracterized the actor’s deposition as an admission of drugging and “rape.” In actuality, they said, he simply admitted to using the now-banned drug for the same reason many others did during the era. 
  
 “There are countless tales of celebrities, music stars, and wealthy socialites in the 1970’s willingly using Quaaludes for recreational purposes and during consensual sex,” their motion said. 
  
 As for how Cosby initially met Amar, those details remain largely unknown to the public. Attempts to reach several of Amar’s family members for comment were unsuccessful. 
  
 The California disciplinary records also show that Amar regularly signed off on prescriptions for “dangerous” drugs without examining patients and aided and abetted an unlicensed individual in the practice of medicine. That unlicensed business partner left the state because of a federal criminal investigation, according to the filings. 
  
 News of the doctor’s connection to Cosby was no surprise to Hollis, the former attorney who represented Amar in the 1990s when the doctor worked in Maryland. 
  
 “He indicated that he knew a lot of stars in Hollywood,” Hollis said. Their business relationship ended after Amar accused Hollis of misappropriating funds — a charge that later led to Hollis’s disbarment. (Hollis says the charge was false and challenged the disbarment in Maryland and the District, to no avail.) 
  
 Much of Amar’s history is revealed in disciplinary documents that chronicle his path into medical practice. Born in Louisiana, he earned his medical degree from Howard, later completed his residency in obstetrics and gynecology and obtained medical licenses in three states: New York, Maryland and California. 
  
 In 1966, Amar moved to California and began practicing at a hospital in Los Angeles. The next year, he failed his board certification exam for obstetrics and gynecology. 
  
 Several years later, Amar met the operator of an ambulance service, who recruited him to work for Women Who Help Women, an organization that provided abortions. Soon after, the clinic expanded its work and began to perform cosmetic surgery. In 1974, Amar appeared shirtless in Ebony magazine hawking a weight-loss product called the “‘5 Minute Body Shaper.” 
  
  
  
 An advertisement in the March 1974 issue of Ebony magazine features Leroy Amar, a doctor who Bill Cosby says prescribed Quaaludes for him in the 1970s. Cosby says he supplied the pills to women he hoped to have sex with. Quaaludes were a popular party drug among celebrities and others before they were banned in 1984. Amar died in 2002 at age 71. (Obtained by The Washington Post/Obtained by The Washington Post) 
  
 He attended seminars to learn more about the field of plastic surgery, including during a two-week trip to Brazil. Amar, who was black, would later tell investigators that he knew he wasn’t fully qualified as a plastic surgeon but felt that “because of his race he did not have an opportunity to obtain a residency in plastic surgery.” 
  
 In several cases, Amar’s procedures left women with deformed, hardened or uneven breasts, investigators said. 
  
 Amar disputed many of the claims and said he would never subject patients to pain. Also, in an application for reinstatement in California, Amar’s position was that “many of his difficulties were caused because he was unfortunate in the selection of his associates.” 
  
 Amar later ran into trouble in Maryland, where he had held a medical license since 1965. In 1988, after becoming aware of his past discipline in California, the Maryland medical board placed him on probation. 
  
 The doctor’s problems continued in 1991, when he pleaded guilty to one count of income tax evasion and was placed on supervised probation for 18 months, along with 60 days served in a community treatment center. 
  
 Amar surrendered his license to Maryland officials in 1994. Several months later, his application for reinstatement was granted, and he was again placed on probation. (A spokeswoman for the Maryland Board of Physicians said she was unable to provide further information.) 
  
 Several years later, he filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Baltimore. He owed more than $4 million, with $2.4 million due to the Internal Revenue Service, according to news reports at the time. 
  
 The physician died in Los Angeles. No cause of death was recorded by the Los Angeles County coroner’s office, and his body was released to a fellow doctor, a spokesman said. 
  
 He is buried at Westwood Village Memorial Park. The cemetery is a famed final resting place for many of Hollywood’s biggest stars, including Farrah Fawcett, Dean Martin and Marilyn Monroe. 
  
 Mary Pat Flaherty and Julie Tate contributed to this report. ||||| Bill Cosby with Patrick O'Connor (r), his lawyer and chairman of Temple University's Board of Trustees, on June 4, 2014. (Photo: Matt Rourke, AP) 
  
 Bill Cosby is finally coming out of his crouch to defend himself against multiple sex-abuse allegations, hiring a new lawyer/spokesperson and pushing back in court against a deposition that has further damaged his reputation. 
  
 After months of near total silence, Cosby is speaking out through his new public spokeswoman, Washington attorney Monique Pressley. She's started making the media rounds, going on camera to reject accusations from dozens of women who have publicly accused Cosby of drugging and sexually assaulting them in episodes dating back to the 1960s. 
  
 Pressley said Thursday that Cosby's accusers, their lawyers and the media have unfairly tried to convict Cosby by ignoring facts and taking "out of context" Cosby's own words about his behavior towards women contained in his deposition from a 10-year-old civil lawsuit against him. The suit was filed by Andrea Constand, a Temple University basketball official who accused Cosby of drugging and assaulting her at his home in 2004. 
  
 Pressley says the media coverage of Cosby so far has been marked by unbalanced reporting, salacious headlines and false descriptions of what Cosby said in his 1,000-page deposition, which so far is fully available to only a few news organizations. 
  
 The volume and number of accusations do not add up to guilt, she says. 
  
 "My primary focus is to try to ensure that the reporting by the media is paying attention to the facts" in Cosby's latest legal filings, Pressley told USA TODAY. "I am the highlighter, pointing to these facts: There has been no charge of criminal conduct, no conviction and no admission of criminal conduct by Mr Cosby." 
  
 Instead, she said, "There’s no there there. (The media) have picked out things they wanted to be seen and heard and then they shut down (access to the deposition) and that's not balanced." 
  
 Bill Cosby's camp is firing back – finally. Monique Pressley, one of Bill Cosby's new attorney, says there's been... http://t.co/T18vdBF4nJ — Datzhott.com (@DatzHott) July 23, 2015 
  
 Cosby has been mostly silent in the face of mounting allegations, in part because when he denied them through his lawyers, some of his accusers filed defamation suits against him, charging that he labeled them liars by saying he didn't do it. 
  
 "You have the right to deny and defend yourself, and by saying that something did not happen or denying it does not mean you are calling someone a liar," Pressley said. 
  
 Pressley is already getting critical tweets for taking on Cosby's case, a reflection of the generally toxic nature of the public debate surrounding Cosby since the rape allegations first re-emerged last fall. 
  
 How can a black woman represent Bill Cosby? Monique Pressley is not very convincing. — TC (@tchopstl_) July 23, 2015 
  
 "I'm getting Twitter feedback of all sorts, from 'Bravo!' and 'Way to go,' to 'You're getting money from a serial rapist,' and 'Shame on you' – it runs the gamut," she said. It doesn't matter, she said. "I believe in the work I am doing." 
  
 Monique Pressley is a great attorney. She is working it in this CNN interview about Bill Cosby — Domi Baby (@MsDomi13) July 23, 2015 
  
 She spoke after Cosby's legal team in Philadelphia went back to federal court on Thursday to ask a judge to hold Constand's attorney, Dolores Troiani, responsible for the leak of the deposition, which may have violated federal court rules. 
  
 Under such rules, court reporters are officers of the court who are not supposed to release without permission a copy of a deposition to anyone except the judge, the lawyers and the parties to a suit. "We believe there was a failure on a number of different levels and in direct contradiction to a number of procedures covering court rules, the code of ethics for court reporters and the confidentiality agreement," Pressley said. 
  
 The deposition has furthered damaged Cosby's tattered reputation by revealing his descriptions of how he obtained prescriptions of a sedative to give to women he sought for sex. He says these encounters were consensual; his accusers say they show part of his pattern of behavior in encounters with women. 
  
 Pressley says these encounters date back decades, to a time when the sedative quaaludes was common in social settings. Nothing Cosby did then was coercive, she says. Critics who point to this behavior as damaging to his standing as a conservative public moralist are forgetting that people can change, she said. 
  
 "It doesn't mean that 40 years later he can’t offer words of wisdom about ways to do things and not do things," she says. "You can label him a hypocrite if you want but don't label him a serial rapist because you find him hypocritical. And a good deal of that (kind of conflation) is going on now." 
  
 Cosby settled Constand's suit in 2006. It was supposed to have been placed under a confidential seal that covered the lawyers, the parties and other court officials. But the contents have gone public anyway, partly through the order of U.S. District Judge Eduardo Robreno, and partly through a leak to theNew York Times from a court reporter last week. 
  
 Cosby's lawyers, led by Temple University board president Patrick O'Connor, blame Troiani for the leak because it came from the court reporting service she hired to take Cosby's deposition over four days in 2005. Cosby wants the judge to sanction her and reinforce the confidentiality agreement covering the Constand settlement. 
  
 Troiani did not return a call about the latest development. But she is pursuing an effort to open up the Constand lawsuit and make all documents involved public. And the two legal teams have traded accusations over who supposedly violated the confidentiality clause first. 
  
 It's unclear when Robreno will rule on any of the new legal filings in the Constand lawsuit. 
  
 The Constand case is just one of several civil lawsuits against Cosby filed by accusers or groups of accusers whose allegations are too old to pursue in criminal court. Some are suing him for defamation, but one accuser, Judy Huth, filed a lawsuit last year in California accusing him of "sexual misconduct" for allegedly molesting her at the Playboy Mansion in Los Angeles 40 years ago when she was 15. 
  
 Huth first tried to get criminal charges filed against Cosby, and when that effort failed, she turned to civil court. Cosby has been trying to get Huth's lawsuit thrown out but the California Supreme Court late Wednesday declined to do so. 
  
 Huth's lawyer, women's rights attorney Gloria Allred, was exultant at the news and vowed to make Cosby appear for a deposition. 
  
 "We are looking forward to Mr. Cosby answering questions under oath at his deposition and we will continue to seek justice for our courageous client, Judy Huth," said Allred, who represents 17 Cosby accusers. 
  
 Who is DC solo lawyer @MoniquePressley and how did she become the public face of Bill Cosby's legal team? http://t.co/5gVY4R0Y17 — Jenna Greene (@JgreeneJenna) July 23, 2015 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1RVDdCN |||||