Story highlights Kurdish security forces allow families into region, with significant restrictions 
  
 A combatant tells CNN that ISIS remains in control of Tikrit 
  
 Iraqi military official says Iraqi jets are targeting ISIS locations in city of Mosul 
  
 Reports continue to emerge of atrocities committed by both sides 
  
 Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish region has put tight restrictions on the border crossings used by Iraqis fleeing extremist militants and airstrikes in the northern city of Mosul on Saturday, raising fears of a humanitarian crisis as some desperate families may be left with nowhere to go. 
  
 The Kurdish regional government's decision to first close the border crossings and then reopen them with restrictions came on the same day Iraq's security forces went on the offensive, carrying out airstrikes in Mosul and fighting to take back Tikrit from Islamic State of Iraq and Syria fighters, known as ISIS. 
  
 The offensive appeared to mark a turn for Iraqi security forces, who were routed by ISIS fighters this month during a lighting advance that saw the al Qaeda offshoot seize large swaths of northern and western Iraq. 
  
 State media and a local tribal leader reported that Iraqi forces had retaken the city of Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. 
  
 Sheikh Khamis al-Joubouri, a key tribal leader in Tikrit, told CNN that the Iraqi security forces entered the city supported by special forces and fighters from among the local tribes, and had gained control. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Pentagon: US 'very prepared' to take ISIS Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pentagon: US 'very prepared' to take ISIS 06:38 
  
 JUST WATCHED Armed U.S. drones fly over Baghdad Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Armed U.S. drones fly over Baghdad 02:17 
  
 He said ISIS fighters retreated in the direction of Kirkuk and Nineveh provinces. 
  
 However, amid claim and counter-claim, a combatant told a CNN freelance reporter that ISIS fighters remained in control of Tikrit, but that there are fierce clashes in an area about 20 kilometers from the city center, toward Samarra. 
  
 State-run Iraqiya TV reported that the Iraqi army and volunteer militia groups had cleared ISIS fighters from the city, having advanced on the city from four directions. 
  
 Sabah Numan, a Counter Terrorism Unit spokesman, told the station that 120 militants had been killed and 20 vehicles destroyed in a large-scale operation that began Saturday morning. 
  
 He did not provide any evidence of the claim, and CNN cannot independently confirm the reports. 
  
 Sunni tribes wade into fight 
  
 Al-Joubouri said that the tribes were not aligned with the government or with ISIS and had stayed out of the fight until now. 
  
 But, he said, when ISIS fighters who arrived in Tikrit robbed banks and carried out executions, as well as bringing the local economy to a standstill, the tribal leaders offered their help to the Iraqi security forces poised outside the city. The tribal leaders shared their knowledge of the city, including routes and known ISIS positions, he said. 
  
 On Friday, Human Rights Watch reported that two mass graves believed to contain the bodies of Iraqi soldiers, police and civilians killed by ISIS and their militant allies had been discovered in Tikrit. 
  
 JUST WATCHED The fight for Iraq Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The fight for Iraq 02:27 
  
 Iraq's military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Qassim Atta, told a news briefing Saturday that Iraq's forces had regained the upper hand against ISIS and were now being supported by the tribes. 
  
 "We are advancing in all our fights," he said. 
  
 As part of that fight, Iraqi security forces broke up a terror cell in the predominantly Sunni neighborhood of al-Amiriya in eastern Baghdad, the Ministry of Defense said. Nine people were arrested following a raid Friday on a Sunni mosque where the ministry claims security forces uncovered cache of weapons and bombs. 
  
 After being interrogated, those detained admitted they planned to carry out attacks during the holy month of Ramadan, which begins Sunday, the ministry said. 
  
 Additionally, Iraqi airstrikes targeted ISIS fighters building an earthen dam along the Euphrates River in Anbar province. 
  
 Families flee 
  
 Iraq's air force carried out a series of airstrikes on Mosul, according to a senior Iraqi military official. 
  
 The airstrikes targeted four locations inside Iraq's second-largest city, including ISIS headquarters, said Mazen al-Safaar, a traffic director in Mosul. 
  
 But a doctor says the airstrikes also hit Mosul's administration building and the Old City's shopping district. 
  
 At least seven civilians were killed and two were wounded in the airstrikes, according to Dr. Salaheldin al-Naimi, the director of the health administration. 
  
 Hundreds of thousands fled when Mosul fell to ISIS two and a half weeks ago. Many headed for Kurdish-controlled areas. 
  
 Renewed conflict in the city, located about 420 kilometers (260 miles) north of the capital, Baghdad, forced many more to flee -- but it is unclear what options they have left. 
  
 They were initially barred Saturday by the Kurdish fighting force -- known as the Peshmerga -- from entering the region through checkpoints. 
  
 But that was lifted later in the day. 
  
 The Peshmerga allowed families from Mosul to enter the Kurdish region, but only after undergoing security and background checks, two Kurdish security officials told CNN. 
  
 They also must have a sponsor who lives in the region, they said. 
  
 This move comes two days after a suicide car bomb struck a checkpoint manned by Kurdish forces in Kolchali, northeast of Mosul, according to Kurdish security forces in Irbil. 
  
 At least one Kurdish security officer was killed and 15 other people were wounded in that incident, security forces said. 
  
 Mass graves, executions 
  
 In addition to the alleged executions in Tikrit, reports continue to emerge of atrocities committed by both sides. 
  
 Human Rights Watch, citing displaced residents and local activists and journalists, said Saturday that ISIS fighters kidnapped at least 40 Shiite Turkmen, dynamited four Shia places of worship, and ransacked homes and farms in two Shia villages just outside Mosul. 
  
 The few Sunni villagers who remained in Guba and Shireekhan told those who fled that at least some of the kidnapped Turkmen had been killed, the rights group said. However, they had not seen bodies and could not give more information. 
  
 ISIS destroyed seven Shia places of worship in the predominantly Shia Turkmen city of Tal Afar, about 30 miles west of Mosul, earlier in the week, Human Rights Watch added, citing local sources. 
  
 "The ISIS rampage is part of a long pattern of attack by armed Sunni extremists on Turkmen and other minorities," said Letta Tayler, senior terrorism and counterterrorism researcher at Human Rights Watch. "The killing, bombing, and pillaging threatens to displace entire communities, possibly forever." 
  
 On Friday, Amnesty International said it had gathered evidence pointing to a pattern of "extrajudicial executions" of Sunni detainees by government forces and Shiite militias in Tal Afar, Mosul and Baquba. 
  
 "Reports of multiple incidents where Sunni detainees have been killed in cold blood while in the custody of Iraqi forces are deeply alarming," said Donatella Rovera, Amnesty International's senior crisis response adviser, who is in northern Iraq. 
  
 "The killings suggest a worrying pattern of reprisal attacks against Sunnis in retaliation for ISIS." ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Recapturing Tikrit will be a tantalising prospect for Iraq, as the BBC's Paul Adams reports 
  
 Iraq's army has routed Sunni militants in a major offensive on the northern city of Tikrit, state media say. 
  
 State television said the governor's HQ had been recaptured and 60 fighters from the Isis militant group killed. 
  
 A spokesman for the rebels confirmed heavy fighting but implied the attack had failed, saying they were pursuing what was left of the army offensive. 
  
 The rebels control large swathes of the north and west after lightning raids that captured the second city, Mosul. 
  
 'Flee or be killed' 
  
 On Saturday, thousands of Iraqi troops backed by tanks and air power attacked Tikrit from four directions, state TV said. 
  
 It said there had been complete success in clearing Isis from the city, with some militant commanders among the 60 killed. It said the other insurgents there had fled. 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Iraqi Shia fighters secure an area to the west of the city of Najaf 
  
 Tikrit fell on 11 June to rebels of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Isis). 
  
 The BBC's Jim Muir, who is in northern Iraq, says that since then, the government has been threatening a counter-offensive from the next town down the Tigris river - Samarra - where the insurgents were finally checked. 
  
 State TV said preparations were now being made to move north towards Mosul. 
  
 The Iraqi soldiers are being supported in the offensive by allied Sunni tribesmen and Shia militias. 
  
 The attack on Tikrit included air strikes that targeted insurgents at a university campus to the north of the city. 
  
 Soldiers had captured part of the campus in a helicopter operation on Friday. 
  
 Army spokesman Lt-Gen Sabah Fatlawi had warned Isis fighters they "now have two choices - flee or be killed". 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Several air strikes were also reported on the rebel-held second city of Mosul 
  
 One Tikrit resident, Yousef, told the BBC there was still fighting in the city, in both northern and southern districts. 
  
 He said: "Most residents have already left Tikrit. Most have left for Kirkuk or Mosul. They are scared of being stuck in the middle of all the fighting. Only five families in my street have stayed." 
  
 Iraqi military sources said the offensive on Tikrit - the mainly Sunni hometown of former leader Saddam Hussein - was being co-ordinated with American military advisers. 
  
 However, although the US has confirmed it is flying armed drones in Iraq to protect US personnel on the ground, US officials say American troops are not directly involved in the hostilities. 
  
 Some 300 US military advisers have been deployed to Iraq. 
  
 Also on Saturday, fighting to the south of the capital Baghdad left at least 20 Iraqi troops dead. Police officials told AP dozens of insurgents were also killed. 
  
 Another army spokesman told Agence France-Presse that Iraqi forces were also now in control of a key road from Baghdad to Samarra. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reda El Mawy reports on the Christians fleeing Qaraqosh 
  
 Separately, Iraq's most influential Shia cleric called for a prime minister to be appointed by Tuesday to try to defuse the country's political crisis. 
  
 Grand Ayatollah Sistani said key positions should be agreed before the new parliament meets then. Pressure has been building for a national unity government. 
  
 Prime Minister Nouri Maliki wants a third term, though correspondents say he is seen by many as having precipitated the crisis through sectarian policies that have pushed Iraq's Sunni minority into the hands of Isis extremists. 
  
 Meanwhile, the Archbishop of Irbil, in northern Iraq, told the BBC that more than 40,000 Christians had fled villages near Mosul in recent days after insurgents attacked the two large Christian settlements of Karakosh and Karamlaish. 
  
 The displaced have sought refuge in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. |||||