Rupert Murdoch jousted with disgruntled shareholders Friday as the 80-year-old chairman and CEO of News Corp. defended his handling of a phone hacking scandal in Britain and deflected any notion that he plans to step down soon. 
  
 A protestor dressed as News Corp. CEO Rupert Murdock is seen with protestors in front of Fox Studios in Los Angeles on Friday, Oct 21, 2011. A few dozen people showed up to demonstrate outside Fox Studios... (Associated Press) 
  
 More than 100 protesters gathered outside the 20th Century Fox studio lot where News Corp. held its annual shareholders meeting. Inside, with his sons Lachlan and James seated before him in the front row, Murdoch parried allegations that he had poor oversight of the company, sometimes cutting off speakers to jab in an insult or dispute a fact. 
  
 Votes from the shareholders were still being counted in the afternoon but the company said a proposal from the Christian Brothers Investment Services to force the company's chairman to be an independent director had failed. Few had held out any hope they could overcome Murdoch's control of 40 percent of voting shares through a family trust, or the 7 percent stake Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal had almost certainly cast in support of him. 
  
 "It was pretty perfunctory," said Rev. Seamus Finn, who attended on behalf of the organization. "It was a nice meeting, but it didn't offer much in terms of how they're going to put this behind them." 
  
 Questions and comments from shareholders focused on the phone-hacking scandal, which caused the company this summer to shutter the tabloid News of the World and drop its $12 billion bid for full control of British Sky Broadcasting. Britons and other people worldwide were outraged to learn that a private investigator hired by the paper had hacked into the cellphone voicemail of 13-year-old Milly Dowler, potentially impeding a police investigation and giving false hope to her family. Dowler was later found to be murdered. 
  
 The phone hacking scandal has forced the resignation of two of London's top police officers, ousted top executives such as Dow Jones & Co. CEO Les Hinton, and claimed the job of Prime Minister David Cameron's former spin doctor, Andy Coulson, an ex-News of the World editor. The company said in London on Friday that it had agreed to pay 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) to her family and 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) to charities the family will choose. 
  
 Friday marked the first time Murdoch faced shareholders with small stakes in the company since the scandal broke in July. 
  
 Outside the studio lot, some demonstrators carried anti-Murdoch signs, including one that stated "Fire the Murdoch Mafia." Another read, "Rich media equals poor democracy." Some of the demonstrators were from an organization that has been staging rallies recently to demand good jobs. 
  
 Tom Watson, a member of Parliament with Britain's Labour Party, flew to Los Angeles to make a new allegation about covert surveillance techniques by company employees. 
  
 Watson asked Murdoch if he was aware that a person who had left prison was hired by News Corp.'s British newspaper unit and hacked into the computer of a former army intelligence officer. He later said the incident happened around 2005 and that evidence of the computer hacking is with London's Metropolitan Police. He said it could lead to the discovery of further victims of computer hacking. Watson said he has made the allegation before but it hasn't been widely reported. 
  
 Watson represented nearly 1,700 non-voting shares for labor group AFL-CIO and got up twice and spoke for a few minutes during the 90-minute meeting. He is been a key driver of a 2 1/2-year probe into phone hacking and alleged police bribery at the company's British newspaper unit. 
  
 Murdoch said he wasn't aware of the allegation, and board director Viet Dinh said the company would look into it. 
  
 "I promise you absolutely that we will stop at nothing to get to the bottom of this and put it right," Murdoch said. 
  
 Watson evoked private investigator Glenn Mulcaire, who was jailed in 2007 for eavesdropping on the phones of royal staff. He warned that this investigation could mean more problems ahead for the company. 
  
 "News Corp. is potentially facing a Mulcaire 2," Watson said. "You haven't told any of your investors about what is to come." 
  
 Several shareholders took issue with a chart Murdoch put up showing the stock's upbeat performance compared with most media peers since the beginning of the year and since the beginning of July. They said its performance over 10 years or more lagged its peers. Murdoch said the chart was to address criticism that the company had been hurt by the hacking scandal. 
  
 Edward Mason, secretary of the Ethical Investment Advisory Group, which advises the Church of England's investments, began speaking about News Corp.'s shareholder returns when Murdoch butted in, saying "Your investments haven't been that great, but go on." 
  
 Stephen Mayne, a journalist and shareholder activist who once worked for News Corp.'s Australian newspapers, protested when Murdoch tried to bring the meeting to a close. 
  
 "Never before have you attempted to shut it down quite like this," Mayne said. 
  
 Murdoch retorted: "You had a lady friend who shut you down in the past." 
  
 Murdoch then got a laugh when he claimed he was being as open and fair as possible in letting critics air their concerns. "We even had Mr. Watson on Fox television this morning," he said. "It's called fair and balanced." 
  
 Despite the circus-like atmosphere, several large shareholder groups quietly registered their concerns, including Todd Mattley, investment officer for the California Public Employees' Retirement System, which has some $225 billion in assets. 
  
 Mattley said CalPERS voted its 1.4 million voting shares in favor of the Christian Brothers' proposal demanding an independent chairman. Although he said he knew the vote was "symbolic" he said later, "This is something we've said is a governance best practice." 
  
 The company also came under renewed fire for its dual-class share system, which allows the Murdochs to control the company despite owning voting shares that account for less than 15 percent of the company's total $44 billion market value. 
  
 Dinh said the last time the company voted on the dual-share structure was in 2007, when it passed with 77 percent of the votes. 
  
 News Corp.'s non-voting shares are down about 5 percent from when the scandal broke in early July, although they have been buoyed recently by a $5 billion share buyback plan that is about a third complete. On Friday, News Corp.'s stock rose 35 cents, or 2.1 percent, to close at $17.20. 
  
 Proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services had recommended voting out all existing board members, including Murdoch and his sons James and Lachlan. Two other firms, Glass Lewis and Egan-Jones, recommend voting against the sons, among others. 
  
 Although the vote count hadn't yet been tallied, the company said all of its director nominees had been elected. 
  
 Jay Eisenhofer, co-lead attorney in a shareholder lawsuit against News Corp. on charges of mishandling the affair, said on a conference call with Watson on Thursday that if even 20 percent of votes are cast against the re-election of Murdoch and his two sons, it would be a victory. That's because that would be nearly half the 53 percent of votes unaffiliated with the family, he said. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press video journalist John Mone contributed to this report. ||||| Rupert Murdoch has been dealt a blow by shareholders who called on the News Corp chairman and his sons to resign from the scandal-torn media empire. 
  
 At the company's annual meeting in Los Angeles on Friday Murdoch made a defiant and uncompromising address, insisting News Corp's history was the "stuff of legend." However, he was berated by shareholders and some of the world's largest investors voted against his re-election, and that of his sons, to the News Corp board. They also did not approve of the $33m (£21m) he was paid as chairman and chief executive this year. 
  
 Murdoch owns 12% of the company but controls about 40% of the votes because of News Corp's two classes of shares. But the fact that major investors voted against his re-election and that of his sons and other directors is a major blow for the 80-year-old chairman and chief executive. 
  
 News Corp plans to release the full details of the vote on Monday. Before the meeting, shareholders told the Guardian that James Murdoch was likely to receive the biggest vote of no confidence. If the votes go against him, it will cast further doubts on his future at News Corp. The youngest Murdoch son is already facing questions about evidence he gave to a parliamentary inquiry into the News of the World hacking scandal and shareholders at Murdoch-controlled BSkyB have called for his resignation. 
  
 At the meeting Rupert Murdoch said he was "personally determined" to clean up the phone hacking scandal that had led to the closure of the NoW, but said the issue needed to be set in context at a company that had faced "understandable scrutiny and unfair attack". 
  
 He argued that the business had a famous history – from the time he took over a single newspaper in Adelaide in 1953 – which had to be set against the revelations that several reporters at the NoW had been engaged in hacking into voicemails left for crime victims, their families, public figures and celebrities. 
  
 Speaking at the start of the company's annual shareholder meeting, Murdoch offered no fresh concessions. With most of the votes in his control, there was no prospect of him or his heir apparent James, being voted off the board. However, the scale of the rebellion was expected to exceed 20% of non-family shareholders. 
  
 Those attending included Edward Mason, secretary of the ethical investment advisory group of the Church of England, which owns about $6m worth of News Corp shares. "There needs to be decisive action in terms of holding people to account," he said before the event, noting that it was the first time his group had attended a company annual meeting. At the meeting, Murdoch criticised the church's investment track record, describing it as "not that great". 
  
 Julie Tanner, assistant director of Christian Brothers Investment Services (CBIS), which represents more than 1,000 Catholic institutions worldwide, was the first at the meeting to question Murdoch's track record, saying that the "extraordinary scandals" in the UK required corporate overhaul. 
  
 Tanner proposed a motion that News Corp appoint an independent chairman, "to empower the board in relation to the Murdoch family", and asked that the company launch a "truly independent investigation" into the phone-hacking allegations, instead of the work by its London-based internal management and standards committee. 
  
 The Labour MP Tom Watson, a persistent thorn in Murdoch's side, travelled to Los Angeles to attend the AGM. He commented on the "deepest irony" of the opening presentation, which included images of Prince William – whom he alleged had been targeted by former NoW private investigator Glenn Mulcaire – and Kate Middleton, whom he claimed had been targeted by another private investigator employed by the now closed Sunday tabloid, Jonathan Rees. 
  
 Watson warned News Corp investors that they were facing "Mulcaire 2" in the UK as victims of alleged computer hacking took action against its subsidiary News International. 
  
 "You haven't told any of your investors what is to come," he told Murdoch, although the News Corp boss insisted that his company was co-operating fully with police inquiries. 
  
 Watson told Murdoch that he had evidence that the Metropolitan police was investigating computer hacking by private investigators who had worked for the NoW as well as other papers. Murdoch said he had no knowledge of the situation. 
  
 "What happened a few years ago was absolutely wrong and I have said so, and I have said that we're all ashamed of it," Murdoch said, adding that "recent rumours" Watson mentioned were under investigation by the police. 
  
 After the meeting, Watson said: "If my concerns are founded then this company is going to experience even more litigation in the future than it faces now." 
  
 Investors, critics and the press were bussed into the high security event from a parking lot in Century City to the Zanuck Theatre at Fox Studios, where a collection of Oscars 
  
 were on display outside. Outside about 200 protesters had rallied with signs that read "Stop the Lies" and "News Corp Board Has to Go." 
  
 Stephen Mayne, an Australian shareholder and long-time critic of Murdoch, said it was an "extraordinarily paranoid" meeting. "I think he's losing it," he commented. "He comes across as a paranoid control freak." 
  
 A few hours before the meeting began, News Corp confirmed it had reached an agreement to pay the family of murdered teenager Milly Dowler £2m in compensation, with Rupert Murdoch personally donating an additional £1m to six charities. 
  
 The settlement relates to the hacking of the missing schoolgirl's phone messages by the tabloid after she went missing in March 2002. "Nothing that has been agreed will ever bring back Milly," the Dowler family said. "The only way that a fitting tribute could be agreed was to ensure that a very substantial donation to charity was made in Milly's memory." |||||  
  
 Rupert Murdoch and his sons survived a shareholder challenge to their control of News Corp. 
  
 Following the company's annual meeting in Los Angeles on Friday, News Corp. announced that Murdoch, his sons James and Lachlan, and the remainder of the board had been reelected -- despite calls from some shareholders for their ouster. 
  
 News Corp. declined to announce the vote tally, saying it would release figures early next week. 
  
 The vote is expected to be a referendum on Murdoch's stewardship of the $33-billion-a-year conglomerate that owns the Fox broadcast network, Fox News Channel, the 20th Century Fox movie studio, HarperCollins publishing house and such newspapers as the Wall Street Journal. 
  
 The media company has been under increasing pressure to make dramatic changes to its management structure. Some investors have lobbied to reduce the influence of the 80-year-old Murdoch and his family since a tabloid cell phone hacking scandal in Britain exploded into front-page headlines in July. 
  
 Operatives for News Corp.'s now-defunct News of the World tabloid illegally eavesdropped on cellphone messages left for members of the royal family, celebrities, soccer stars, British soldiers and crime victims. 
  
 Murdoch's critics knew that they faced an uphill battle to unseat Murdoch and others on the board. Murdoch and his family control about 40% of the voting shares. A close ally holds an additional 7%. That meant that nearly every other shareholder would have had to vote against Murdoch to topple him. 
  
 On Friday, about a hundred shareholders attended the meeting in a theater on News Corp.-owned 20th Century Fox's movie studio lot in West Los Angeles. Some expressed support for Murdoch. But several investors demanded that more independent members join the board of directors. 
  
 Venture capitalist James W. Breyer, 50, a partner at Bay Area-based Accel Partners, was elected to the board as an independent director. 
  
 Investors, who have long been critical of the company's management structure, were emboldened to lobby for changes in light of the scandal. 
  
 "We have found the board's response to be inadequate," said Julie Tanner, assistant director of Christian Bros. Investment Services Inc., which made a motion on Friday -- which was defeated -- to break up the job of chairman and chief executive. Murdoch serves as both. 
  
 Corporate governance experts have long decried News Corp.'s dual-class structure, contending that it provides Murdoch with undue influence to run News Corp. like his own personal fiefdom with little accountability to shareholders. 
  
 Although Murdoch and his family alone control 40% of the company's voting shares, they own only about 13% of all of the shares outstanding. 
  
 The dual-class structure -- with Class A and Class B shares -- allows votes only to shareholders who own News Corp. Class B shares. The vast majority of News Corp. investors own Class A shares and do not have a voice in company matters. 
  
 "It's time to get on the governance high road," said Stephen Mayne, an Australian shareholder who said he spent thousands of dollars to travel to Friday's meeting. Mayne, who previously worked at a Murdoch paper, said: "You should get with the program and embrace a board with more independent board members." 
  
 But Murdoch was undeterred. 
  
 "I'm very proud of the culture of this company," he told his critics. "Have there been mistakes made? Yes, and we are putting them right. We will stop at nothing to get to the bottom of this and make things right." 
  
 RELATED: 
  
 Protesters push for Rupert Murdoch ouster 
  
 Rupert Murdoch calls Myspace buy a 'huge mistake' 
  
 Rupert Murdoch spars with critics at News Corp. annual meeting 
  
 -- Meg James, Joe Flint and Dawn C. Chmielewski 
  
 Photo: Rupert Murdoch speaks outside a hotel in London where he met the family of slain teenager Milly Dowler on July 15, 2011. Credit: Kirsty Wigglesworth / Associated Press |||||