Scott Chalkley, from Chaddesden, Derby, and Sue Davey, from Tamworth, Staffordshire, were among 38 killed by a gunman near Sousse on Friday.
The pair worked for Severn Trent Water, which said they were "much loved".
Ms Davey's daughter is the partner of Leicester City player Marc Albrighton and the club offered its condolences.
Her son Conor Fulford, said: "I want as many people as possible to know my mum.
"I'm trying my best to let people know we have lost a very special person to us."
He said his lasting memory of his mother is of her "grinning" just before she went on holiday to Tunisia.
"I'm happy because I've never seen her so happy," he said.
He said the family felt "abandoned" by the authorities following the attack and were travelling to Tunisia on Tuesday to bring her body back home.
The 43-year-old's daughter, Chloe Fulford, from Sutton Coldfield, tweeted Prime Minister David Cameron: "Our family are completely heartbroken as you can imagine.
"I just need one question answering... what are we doing to prevent this happening again?
"This needs action it's gone on to [sic] long and I pray no other family go through what my family have gone through in these last few days, and for the rest of our lives."
Mr Chalkley's son Ross Naylor said on Twitter that he and his brother Brad had "lost our Dad". He called the attacks "sickening".
Neighbours in Chaddesden said Mr Chalkley, 42, was a "lovely man" and "very cheerful".
His former partner Wendie Naylor told the Derby Telegraph her sons had been left devastated.
"Scott was a fantastic dad who loved his two boys. Words really can't describe what has happened, it's so shocking," she said.
Mr Cameron has paid tribute to the victims in Parliament.
Responding to Derby North MP Amanda Solloway, who raised Mr Chalkley's death in the Commons, he expressed his sympathies to his family.
"There are going to be many tragic stories about what happened on that beach and hotel and people will be coming to terms with it for many years to come," he said.
Severn Trent said the couple "had a passion to help others however they could and cared enormously for their co-workers".
Leicester City FC offered "its sincerest condolences" to Marc Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family, after learning of Ms Davey's death.
"They are all in our thoughts and prayers," the club said.