Washington (CNN) WikiLeaks Monday morning posted an additional 2,000 emails that appear to be from the account of Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, John Podesta. 
  
 This is the second hack in four days from WikiLeaks, which claims it has a trove of more than 50,000 emails from Podesta. 
  
 The emails appear to be mostly from 2015, covering a litany of policy and strategy discussions between Clinton staffers on how to handle issues of the day and the press, including the release of the book "Clinton Cash" alleging nefarious activity by the Clinton Foundation. Another email has long-time Clinton aide Doug Band referring to Chelsea Clinton as a "spoiled brat." 
  
 Clinton campaign responded to the release by slamming the Trump campaign for "cheering on a release today engineered by Vladimir Putin," after Trump adviser Jason Miller tweeted a link to the document page with the phrase "And here...we...go." 
  
 "It is absolutely disgraceful that the Trump campaign is cheering on a release today engineered by Vladimir Putin to interfere in this election, and this comes after Donald Trump encouraged more espionage over the summer and continued to deny the hack even happened at Sunday's debate," said Clinton spokesman Glen Caplin. "The timing shows you that even Putin knows Trump had a bad weekend and a bad debate." 
  
 WikiLeaks has been alleged to work with Russia, and US national security officials have accused Russia of trying to influence the US elections through highly coordinated hacks, though they haven't pointed specifically to Russia in the WikiLeaks release. 
  
 Emails released Friday included what appeared to be excerpts from transcripts of closed-door speeches Clinton gave to Wall Street companies after leaving the State Department. 
  
 Here are some highlights of the new batch. 
  
 Chelsea Clinton a 'spoiled brat' 
  
 One exchange has a long-time Bill Clinton aide calling his daughter Chelsea Clinton a "spoiled brat" who had a "lack of focus in her life" in a 2011 email that came to light as part of hacked emails posted by Wikileaks. 
  
 Doug Band emailed Podesta and longtime Hillary Clinton aide Cheryl Mills about a damning story about his consulting company, Teneo, by lashing out at Chelsea Clinton. 
  
 "I don't deserve this from her and deserve a tad more respect or at least a direct dialogue for me to explain these things," Band wrote. "She is acting like a spoiled brat kid who has nothing else to do but create issues to justify what she's doing because she, as she has said, hasn't found her way and has a lack of focus in her life." 
  
 "Clinton Cash" response 
  
 The emails also revealed that Clinton wanted to respond more forcefully to "Clinton Cash," the 2015 book that looked to connect Clinton Foundation actions and decisions made by Hillary Clinton's State Department. 
  
 According to an email from another close aide, Huma Abedin, Clinton wanted to tape a straight-to-camera video responding to the allegations. 
  
 "She believes she needs to do this video because her integrity is being attacked and she is the only one who can say she didnt (sic) make a decision as secstate based on a donor," Abedin wrote. 
  
 Abedin added, "She doesnt want to continue to have to have press yell these questions at her in Nevada and CA and if she doesnt do the video, that is the situation she will be in." 
  
 Reporters at Clinton events had tried to get the former secretary of state to respond to the book by shouting questions at her at events on the trail. Initially, the Clinton campaign had decided not to respond directly to the charges, given the lack of front-page and TV coverage of the book. Once that began to change, having Clinton respond to the charges began to gain more traction internally. 
  
 Clinton ended up responding to the book in TV interviews. 
  
 When to object to Keystone? 
  
 The Clinton campaign discussed opposing the Keystone XL pipeline as early as spring 2015, according to one email from campaign manager Robby Mook. 
  
 Discussing a revelation that a Canadian bank and shareholder in the project had paid $1 million to Bill Clinton while the State Department was reviewing the pipeline, Mook wrote on April 19, 2015, "The enviros may latch onto this going forward. Have we discussed when she will come out against Keystone? After POTUS vetoes?" 
  
 Clinton eventually announced her opposition to the project in September 2015; Obama formally vetoed it in November. 
  
 Responding to Clinton Foundation link to Russian uranium company 
  
 One email exchange revealed the manner in which the campaign aimed to deal with a New York Times article in April 2015 that alleged a connection between donations to the Clinton Foundation and a Russian uranium producing company, Uranium One. 
  
 "We should have surrogates attack the NY Times for writing 'thousands' of words when their own story admitted that there was no connection," Joel Benenson, CEO of the Benenson Strategy Group, wrote to Mandy Grunwald of Grunwald Communications. Grunwald responded, "Ditto here. But it still ran on the front page and he's still getting air time all over the place." 
  
 Suggestions for Clinton 
  
 There's no shortage of suggestions from Clinton supporters outside the campaign on ways she could break through against Bernie Sanders and improve her performance. 
  
 One chain from September 2015 starts with an email from Democratic power broker Andy Manatos, who suggests, "A good amount of exposure of Hillary holding, feeding and playing with her adorable grandchild would greatly help the public understand her." ||||| Hillary Clinton’s campaign purportedly compiled a massive “hits” file on Democratic primary opponent Bernie Sanders, calling into question his “progressive bona fides” on issues ranging from labor to guns to Wall Street, according to a new trove of emails posted by WikiLeaks. 
  
 The 71-page, nearly 50,000-word document was released Monday as the second installment in WikiLeaks’ dump of Clinton Campaign Chairman John Podesta’s alleged emails. The email, titled “PLS REVIEW: Sanders Hits,” was sent by campaign research director Tony Carrk on Oct. 28, 2015 – nearly nine months before the liberal Vermont senator would endorse Clinton following their protracted primary battle. 
  
 “Attached are some hits that could either be written or deployed during the next debate on Sanders,” Carrk writes, noting that the immense opposition research file would eventually be expanded with critiques of Sanders’ plan to provide affordable college education. 
  
 The document, which was prepared in advance of February’s Iowa caucuses, also notes: “Per HRC’s request,” the research team is “doing a deeper dive on Sanders’s agriculture record.” 
  
 The document is broken up into 12 sections, with headings such as “Sanders Is Not Straight with People on His Spending” and “Sanders Not Straight with People on Taxes.” Subcategories then divide the attacks into specific points. 
  
 “Sanders, often thought of as a champion of labor unions, accepted support from a company while it was involved in a bitter labor dispute -- locking out union employees for nearly 22 months,” the document states in the “Labor/Pay to Play/Sugar” section. Sanders later voted “to protect the sugar program.” 
  
 The document also criticizes Sanders for a lack of specifics on his tax plan. 
  
 “Sen. Sanders has not told the American people how much he is going to raise taxes and who is going to pay for them,” one section states. “When confronted on details of his tax plan, he simply says ‘it’s coming.’” 
  
 Jason Miller, senior communications adviser to GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump, tweeted out a link to the WikiLeaks files on Monday afternoon with the comment: "And here...we...go." Clinton's campaign quickly rebuked Miller for the tweet and alluded to a popular theory that WikiLeaks has deep ties to Russia. 
  
 “It is absolutely disgraceful that the Trump campaign is cheering on a release today engineered by [Russian President] Vladimir Putin to interfere in this election, and this comes after Donald Trump encouraged more espionage over the summer and continued to deny the hack even happened at Sunday's debate," Clinton spokesperson Glen Caplin told FoxNews.com in an email. "The timing shows you that even Putin knows Trump had a bad weekend and a bad debate." 
  
  
  
 The research file was compiled between the first two primary debates, which occurred on Oct. 13 and Nov. 14. While Clinton faced four challengers at the first debate, Jim Webb and Lincoln Chafee dropped out shortly afterward, leaving Sanders and the low-polling ex-Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley as her only opponents moving forward. 
  
 The alleged Podesta emails also show a former aide to the late Sen. Lloyd Bentsen criticizing Clinton for her "untrue" attacks on Sanders. 
  
 “Beyond this Hillary should stop attacking Bernie, especially when she says things that are untrue, which candidly she often does,” Brent Budowsky wrote to Podesta on March 13. “I am one of the people with credibility to suggest Bernie people support her in November, and she and [pollster Joel] Benenson and others have no idea of the damage she does to herself with these attacks, which she does not gain by making.” 
  
 During their first rally together on July 12, Clinton praised Sanders as someone who had “energized and inspired a generation of young people who care deeply about our country,” despite the apparent misgivings her campaign had about Sanders as reflected in the research file. 
  
 She added: “You will always have a seat at the table when I am in the White House.” |||||