NEW YORK (CBSNewYork) — While some people take pride in looking like celebrities, one local man’s resemblance to a star got him attacked. 
  
 As CBS2’s Valerie Castro explained, a man was sucker punched for looking like Shia LaBeouf. 
  
 Mario Licato is still confused about why he was punched in the face as he left a Lower East Side subway station on Saturday night. 
  
 “Either Shia LaBeouf did something terrible to him, or I have a punchable face,” he said. 
  
 Licato said he was walking up the stairs from the F Train at the Delancey Street-Essex Street station when a man walking in the opposite direction sucker punched him and shouted. 
  
 “That’s because you look exactly like (expletive) Shia LeBeouf,” he said. 
  
 Licato said it isn’t the first time he’s been told that he looks like the Hollywood actor, famous for starring roles in movies like Transformers. 
  
 “Well I mean other people have been telling me for a long time that I resemble Shia LaBeouf, but in a good way, like, ‘Oh, you look like Shia LaBeouf, that’s cute,’ not like, ‘Oh I want to punch you in the face, you look like Shia LaBeouf,'” he said. 
  
 At first, Licato thought he’d imagined the man’s outburst, but said bystanders confirmed it. 
  
 “I was like, ‘Am I crazy, or did that guy just say he punched me because I look like Shia LaBeouf?’ and they were like: ‘Oh no, you’re not crazy. That’s exactly what he said to you,'” he said. 
  
 Witnesses said the apparent Shia LaBeouf hater took off down into the station and hopped on a train. 
  
 Licato was left bleeding with broken glasses. 
  
 With a black eye and a gash over his eyebrow late Tuesday, Licato was left wondering about his attacker’s Hollywood hatred. 
  
 “Does he hate, like, his work? Does he hate me? I don’t know,” he said. 
  
 Despite the alleged motivation behind the attack Licato said he doesn’t hold a grudge against the actor, and considers himself a fan. |||||  
  
 Mario Licato does kind of look like Shia LaBeouf. (Photo by Megan Adamson-Jackes) This past weekend, Mario Licato had all the makings of a carefree Saturday. He'd met some friends for lunch, then repaired to a friend's apartment in Cobble Hill for the afternoon. Around 8 p.m., he hopped on the F train by himself to go catch a show at Pianos on the Lower East Side. Getting off the train at Delancey Street, he ran into trouble. 
  
 "I was walking up the stairs," he remembers. "I had my head down—there were people in front of me—just to make sure I wasn't going to fall." 
  
 He continued: 
  
 I didn't even see the guy. I just see his fist coming towards me. It knocked me, and while I was falling down the stairs, all I hear was, "This is because you look exactly like Shia LaBeouf!" 
  
 Licato says he lost consciousness when he landed at the foot of the stairs, and when he came to his face was covered in blood, his glasses broken in half. A couple rushed to his aid and asked, "Did you know that guy?" 
  
 The couple, according to Licato, described the attacker as in his mid-20s, 6 foot to 6-foot-3, and muscular, like a frat boy. Licato, to the best of his knowledge, did not know the guy. The LaBeouf hater, as Licato says witnesses recounted, was running down the stairs when he punched Licato and kept going, then boarded a train. 
  
 Licato said he had difficulty processing what had happened. 
  
 I was so confused. I was even more confused because I got up and I was like, am I crazy or did I hear him say, "This is because you look like Shia LaBeouf?" And [the couple] were like, "Nope. That's exactly what he said as he was running away from you." 
  
 The couple called 911 and helped Licato up the stairs to the sidewalk to wait for an ambulance. One arrived within minutes, but Licato says the emergency medical technicians who stepped out weren't exactly comforting. 
  
 They got out of the car and the first EMT guy, while I'm gushing blood from my face, with my broken glasses, just says, "Welcome to New York, buddy." 
  
 My response was "Well, fuck you, I’m born and raised here." I was like, "Are you kidding me? You're standing in front of somebody who's bleeding out of their face and that's your first response?" 
  
 Licato says that, having broken the ice, the EMTs checked him for a concussion, ruled that out, and told him that he could get stitches for his eyebrow, but that a butterfly bandage would probably hold it just as well. Then, he says, they left, not staying for the police to arrive as EMTs are required to do. 
  
 Cops did arrive, and Licato says they were helpful, questioning him for what little information he could provide, and canvassing people around the station. The whole process took about an hour, and once the officers left, Licato took a cab home to Bushwick, night ruined. 
  
 Licato works as an art director in advertising, and said that he couldn't get out of working a shoot on Monday. His bruises, he said, are "changing color by the hour," he has developed numbness in his left nostril, and yesterday morning he woke up with one eye turned red. A coworker warned the people on the job before Licato's arrival. 
  
 "It's not super cute," Licato said of his condition. 
  
 The responding officers told him they would look into the EMTs' alleged dereliction of duty, though it is not mentioned in the police report. Also missing is a physical description of the assailant, but Licato said the cops sounded confident that they would be able to pull surveillance video from the subway station. An FDNY spokesman said the department has not received a complaint related to the incident. 
  
 And what of Licato's alleged resemblance to LaBeouf? Has he gotten that before? 
  
  
  
 "So many times," Licato said. "That's why I knew I wasn't that crazy. I got it three years ago. I've been stopped on the street before, at least 10 times in my life." 
  
 The attack is still deeply perplexing. 
  
 "I wanna know what Shia LaBeouf did to him," Licato said. "What did Shia LaBeouf do to him that he punched somebody that looks like him? He must have did something so mean. Did he steal his girlfriend? Did he just see his last performance art piece?" ||||| Hothead actor Shia LaBeouf has been known to get into bar brawls from time to time but up until now, he has managed to keep from getting his ass kicked. Things changed this weekend when, according to TMZ, Shia got into an argument with a gentleman much larger than him inside a bar in Vancouver, British Columbia (where Shia has been filming a new movie titled The Company You Keep). Both men were ejected from the bar … and that is when things go pretty bad for Shia. Click below to watch video of Shia gettin’ his butt kicked on the streets of Vancouver by a shirtless man who clearly was not intimidated by LaBeouf’s fame. 
  
 Shia LaBeouf was repeatedly PUNCHED IN THE HEAD by a shirtless, hairy-bellied man on a Vancouver sidewalk last week — and TMZ has obtained footage of the brutal ass whooping. It’s unclear exactly what provoked the attack — but we’re told Shia originally got into it with the man inside a bar called Cinema Public House … and after security kicked them both out, the man tore off his shirt and unleashed the fury all over Shia’s face. Moments after the attack, Shia tries to chase after the guy — but someone who appears to be his friend holds him back, telling him, “You gotta lay low right now!” A rep for Cinema Public House tells TMZ, no one on staff noticed the brawl outside — but the rep confirms … Shia has been a regular at the place since he’s been in town to shoot “The Company You Keep.” 
  
 Yeaaaaaaaaaah. It prolly would’ve been wise for Shia to let go of any confrontational anger that he had toward this guy because, as you can see, he was totally outmatched.may be a “big man” when it comes to fame and fortune, but when it comes to brute force and fisticuffs, he’s just a little dude … who is, apparently, easy to beat on. Ouch! |||||