“The laws of Nature are written in the language of mathematics.” 
  
 — Galileo 
  
 Most of us are unaware of the hidden world of mathematics. Actually, we’d rather avoid the subject entirely. It’s difficult and inaccessible. 
  
 A lot of that has to do with the way we’re introduced to mathematics as taught in school and university. 
  
 Math, however, can be “full of infinite possibilities as well as elegance and beauty,” writes mathematician Edward Frenkel in Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality. “Mathematics,” he goes on, “is as much part of our cultural heritage as art, literature, and music.” 
  
 Mathematics directs the flow of the universe, lurks behind its shapes and curves, holds the reins of everything from tiny atoms to the biggest stars. 
  
 Frenkel, who became a professor at Harvard at twenty-one, now teaches at Berkeley. He “hated math” when he was in school. “What really excited me was physics—especially quantum physics.” 
  
 A reader sent me a pointer to Frenkel’s book after reading 17 equations that changed the world. And I’m glad they did. 
  
 Math is a way to describe reality and figure out how the world works, a universal language that has become the gold standard of truth. In our world, increasingly driven by science and technology, mathematics is becoming, ever more, the source of power, wealth, and progress. 
  
 Frenkel argues that mathematical knowledge can be an equalizer. 
  
 Mathematical knowledge is unlike any other knowledge. While our perception of the physical world can always be distorted, our perception of mathematical truths can’t be. They are objective, persistent, necessary truths. A mathematical formula or theorem means the same thing to anyone anywhere – no matter what gender, religion, or skin color; it will mean the same thing to anyone a thousand years from now. And what’s also amazing is that we own all of them. No one can patent a mathematical formula, it’s ours to share. There is nothing in this world that is so deep and exquisite and yet so readily available to all. That such a reservoir of knowledge really exists is nearly unbelievable. It’s too precious to be given away to the “initiated few.” It belongs to all of us. 
  
 One of the key functions of mathematics is the ordering of information. 
  
 This is what distinguishes the brush strokes of Van Gogh from a mere blob of paint. With the advent of 3D printing, the reality we are used to is undergoing a radical transformation: everything is migrating from the sphere of physical objects to the sphere of information and data. We will soon be able to convert information into matter on demand by using 3D printers just as easily as we now convert a PDF file into a book or an MP3 file into a piece of music. 
  
 In our information expanding world, the role of mathematics will become even more crucial as a means to organize and order information. (As equations take over we need to be mindful of what is being filtered.) 
  
 Frenkel beautifully explains our cultural aversion to math. 
  
 What if at school you had to take an “art class” in which you were only taught how to paint a fence? What if you were never shown the paintings of Leonardo da Vinci and Picasso? Would that make you appreciate art? Would you want to learn more about it? I doubt it. You would probably say something like this: “Learning art at school was a waste of my time. If I ever need to have my fence painted, I’ll just hire people to do this for me.” Of course, this sounds ridiculous, but this is how math is taught, and so in the eyes of most of us it becomes the equivalent of watching paint dry. While the paintings of the great masters are readily available, the math of the great masters is locked away. 
  
 You can appreciate math without studying it. 
  
 [M]ost of us have heard of and have at least a rudimentary understanding of such concepts as the solar system, atoms and elementary particles, the double helix of DNA, and much more, without taking courses in physics and biology. And nobody is surprised that these sophisticated ideas are part of our culture, our collective consciousness. Likewise, everybody can grasp key mathematical concepts and ideas, if they are explained in the right way. To do this, it is not necessary to study math for years; in many cases, we can cut right to the point and jump over tedious steps. The problem is: while the world at large is always talking about planets, atoms, and DNA, chances are no one has ever talked to you about the fascinating ideas of modern math, such as symmetry groups, novel numerical systems in which 2 and 2 isn’t always 4, and beautiful geometric shapes like Riemann surfaces. It’s like they keep showing you a little cat and telling you that this is what a tiger looks like. 
  
 “People think they don’t understand math, but it’s all about how you explain it to them. 
  
 If you ask a drunkard what number is larger, 2/ 3 or 3/ 5, he won’t be able to tell you. 
  
 But if you rephrase the question: what is better, 
  
 2 bottles of vodka for 3 people or 3 bottles of vodka for 5 people, 
  
 he will tell you right away: 2 bottles for 3 people, of course.” 
  
 — Israel Gelfand 
  
 Perhaps offering some prescient advice to coming generations, Charles Darwin, wrote in his autobiography: 
  
 “I have deeply regretted that I did not proceed far enough at least to understand something of the great leading principles of mathematics, for men thus endowed seem to have an extra sense.” 
  
 “Mathematics is the source of timeless profound knowledge,” Frenkel writes, “which goes to the heart of all matter and unites us across cultures, continents, and centuries.” 
  
 My dream is that all of us will be able to see, appreciate, and marvel at the magic beauty and exquisite harmony of these ideas, formulas, and equations, for this will give so much more meaning to our love for this world and for each other. 
  
 Love and Math is a book about mathematical love. Frenkel offers the reader a glimpse into the beauty of mathematics with the Langlands Program, “one of the biggest ideas to come out of mathematics in the last fifty years.” In so doing he exposes us to the sides of math we don’t get to see often: inspiration, profound ideas, and beautiful revelations. ||||| Most of us are unaware of the hidden world of mathematics. Actually, we'd rather avoid the subject entirely. It's difficult and inaccessible. 
  
 A lot of that has to do with the way we're introduced to mathematics as taught in school and university. 
  
 Math, however, can be "full of infinite possibilities as well as elegance and beauty," writes mathematician Edward Frenkel in Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality. "Mathematics," he goes on, "is as much part of our cultural heritage as art, literature, and music." 
  
 Mathematics directs the flow of the universe, lurks behind its shapes and curves, holds the reins of everything from tiny atoms to the biggest stars. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 Frenkel, who became a professor at Harvard at twenty-one, now teaches at Berkeley. He "hated math" when he was in school. "What really excited me was physics — especially quantum physics." 
  
 A reader sent me a pointer to Frenkel's book after reading 17 equations that changed the world. And I'm very grateful. 
  
 Math is a way to describe reality and figure out how the world works, a universal language that has become the gold standard of truth. In our world, increasingly driven by science and technology, mathematics is becoming, ever more, the source of power, wealth, and progress. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 Frenkel argues that mathematical knowledge can be an equalizer. 
  
 Mathematical knowledge is unlike any other knowledge. While our perception of the physical world can always be distorted, our perception of mathematical truths can't be. They are objective, persistent, necessary truths. A mathematical formula or theorem means the same thing to anyone anywhere — no matter what gender, religion, or skin color; it will mean the same thing to anyone a thousand years from now. And what's also amazing is that we own all of them. No one can patent a mathematical formula, it's ours to share. There is nothing in this world that is so deep and exquisite and yet so readily available to all. That such a reservoir of knowledge really exists is nearly unbelievable. It's too precious to be given away to the "initiated few." It belongs to all of us. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 One of the key functions of mathematics is the ordering of information. 
  
 This is what distinguishes the brush strokes of Van Gogh from a mere blob of paint. With the advent of 3D printing, the reality we are used to is undergoing a radical transformation: Everything is migrating from the sphere of physical objects to the sphere of information and data. We will soon be able to convert information into matter on demand by using 3D printers just as easily as we now convert a PDF file into a book or an MP3 file into a piece of music. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 In our information expanding world, the role of mathematics will become even more crucial as a means to organize and order information. (As equations take over we need to be mindful of what is being filtered.) 
  
 Frenkel beautifully explains our cultural aversion to math. 
  
 What if at school you had to take an "art class" in which you were only taught how to paint a fence? What if you were never shown the paintings of Leonardo da Vinci and Picasso? Would that make you appreciate art? Would you want to learn more about it? I doubt it. You would probably say something like this: "Learning art at school was a waste of my time. If I ever need to have my fence painted, I'll just hire people to do this for me." Of course, this sounds ridiculous, but this is how math is taught, and so in the eyes of most of us it becomes the equivalent of watching paint dry. While the paintings of the great masters are readily available, the math of the great masters is locked away. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 You can appreciate math without studying it. 
  
 [M]ost of us have heard of and have at least a rudimentary understanding of such concepts as the solar system, atoms and elementary particles, the double helix of DNA, and much more, without taking courses in physics and biology. And nobody is surprised that these sophisticated ideas are part of our culture, our collective consciousness. Likewise, everybody can grasp key mathematical concepts and ideas, if they are explained in the right way. To do this, it is not necessary to study math for years; in many cases, we can cut right to the point and jump over tedious steps. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 The problem is: While the world at large is always talking about planets, atoms, and DNA, chances are no one has ever talked to you about the fascinating ideas of modern math, such as symmetry groups, novel numerical systems in which two and two isn't always four, and beautiful geometric shapes like Riemann surfaces. It's like they keep showing you a little cat and telling you that this is what a tiger looks like. 
  
 The mathematician Israel Gelfand once said: 
  
 People think they don't understand math, but it's all about how you explain it to them. If you ask a drunkard what number is larger, 2/ 3 or 3/5, he won't be able to tell you. But if you rephrase the question: What is better, two bottles of vodka for three people or three bottles of vodka for five people, he will tell you right away: two bottles for three people, of course. 
  
 Perhaps offering some prescient advice to coming generations, Charles Darwin, wrote in his autobiography: 
  
 I have deeply regretted that I did not proceed far enough at least to understand something of the great leading principles of mathematics, for men thus endowed seem to have an extra sense. [The Autobiography of Charles Darwin: 1809-1882] 
  
 "Mathematics is the source of timeless profound knowledge," Frenkel writes, "which goes to the heart of all matter and unites us across cultures, continents, and centuries." 
  
 My dream is that all of us will be able to see, appreciate, and marvel at the magic beauty and exquisite harmony of these ideas, formulas, and equations, for this will give so much more meaning to our love for this world and for each other. [Love and Math: The Heart of Hidden Reality] 
  
 Love and Math is a book about mathematical love. Frenkel offers the reader a glimpse into the beauty of mathematics with the Langlands Program, "one of the biggest ideas to come out of mathematics in the last fifty years." In so doing he exposes us to the sides of math we don't get to see often: inspiration, profound ideas, and beautiful revelations. 
  
 More from Farnam Street... ||||| Image copyright Thinkstock 
  
 Brain scans show a complex string of numbers and letters in mathematical formulae can evoke the same sense of beauty as artistic masterpieces and music from the greatest composers. 
  
 Mathematicians were shown "ugly" and "beautiful" equations while in a brain scanner at University College London. 
  
 The same emotional brain centres used to appreciate art were being activated by "beautiful" maths. 
  
 The researchers suggest there may be a neurobiological basis to beauty. 
  
 The likes of Euler's identity or the Pythagorean identity are rarely mentioned in the same breath as the best of Mozart, Shakespeare and Van Gogh. 
  
 The study in the journal Frontiers in Human Neuroscience gave 15 mathematicians 60 formula to rate. 
  
 One of the researchers, Prof Semir Zeki, told the BBC: "A large number of areas of the brain are involved when viewing equations, but when one looks at a formula rated as beautiful it activates the emotional brain - the medial orbito-frontal cortex - like looking at a great painting or listening to a piece of music." 
  
 The more beautiful they rated the formula, the greater the surge in activity detected during the fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) scans. 
  
 "Neuroscience can't tell you what beauty is, but if you find it beautiful the medial orbito-frontal cortex is likely to be involved, you can find beauty in anything," he said. 
  
 A thing of great beauty 
  
 Image copyright SPL Image caption Euler's identity: Does it get better than this? 
  
 To the untrained eye there may not be much beauty in Euler's identity, but in the study it was the formula of choice for mathematicians. 
  
 At first you don't realise the implications it's a gradual impact, perhaps as you would with a piece of music and then suddenly it becomes amazing as you realise its full potential. Prof David Percy, Institute of Mathematics and its Applications 
  
 It is a personal favourite of Prof David Percy from the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications. 
  
 He told the BBC: "It is a real classic and you can do no better than that. 
  
 "It is simple to look at and yet incredibly profound, it comprises the five most important mathematical constants - zero (additive identity), one (multiplicative identity), e and pi (the two most common transcendental numbers) and i (fundamental imaginary number). 
  
 "It also comprises the three most basic arithmetic operations - addition, multiplication and exponentiation. 
  
 "Given that e, pi and i are incredibly complicated and seemingly unrelated numbers, it is amazing that they are linked by this concise formula. 
  
 "At first you don't realise the implications it's a gradual impact, perhaps as you would with a piece of music and then suddenly it becomes amazing as you realise its full potential." 
  
 He said beauty was a source of "inspiration and gives you the enthusiasm to find out about things". 
  
 Image copyright SPL Image caption The hugely influential theoretical physicist Paul Dirac said: "What makes the theory of relativity so acceptable to physicists in spite of its going against the principle of simplicity is its great mathematical beauty. This is a quality which cannot be defined, any more than beauty in art can be defined, but which people who study mathematics usually have no difficulty in appreciating." 
  
 Mathematician and professor for the public understanding of science, Marcus du Sautoy, said he "absolutely" found beauty in maths and it "motivates every mathematician". 
  
 He said he loved a "small thing [mathematician Pierre de] Fermat did". He showed that any prime number that could be divided by four with a remainder of one was also the sum of two square numbers. 
  
 So 41 is a prime, can be divided by four with one left over and is 25 (five squared) plus 16 (four squared). 
  
 "So if it has remainder one it can always be written as two square numbers - there's something beautiful about that. 
  
 "It's unexpected why should the two things [primes and squares] have anything to do with each other, but as the proof develops you start to see the two ideas become interwoven like in a piece of music and you start to see they come together. 
  
 He said it was the journey not the final proof that was exciting "like in a piece of music it's not enough to play the final chord". 
  
 He said this beauty of maths was missing from schools and yet amazing things could be shown with even primary school mathematical ability. 
  
 In the study, mathematicians rated Srinivasa Ramanujan's infinite series and Riemann's functional equation as the ugliest of the formulae. ||||| Mathematical equations considered beautiful by mathematicians register in the same parts of the brain as music and art, a team of scientists from the Wellcome Laboratory of Neurobiology at University College London has found in a new study. 
  
 Beauty is often talked about in terms of the fleeting and the ethereal. We can’t quite pinpoint what makes something beautiful, but we can come close. A marble sculpture may possess a sort of languid grace, while a bustling symphony may invigorate its audience, and both can be beautiful for different reasons. Now researchers from UCL suggest mathematical equations, too, live in the same neural neighborhood as these commonly held forms of beauty. 
  
 “The mathematicians usually profess an emotional experience when they see a beautiful equation,” lead researcher Professor Semir Zeki told Medical Daily. “We therefore suspected that, as with other experiences of the beautiful — in visual arts or in music — there will be activity in the part of the emotional brain — the medial orbitofrontal cortex — that correlates with the experience of beauty.” 
  
 A Beautiful Chess Match 
  
 Sitting squarely behind your eyes, the orbitofrontal cortex is perhaps the least understood region of the brain. Though scientists believe it’s primarily responsible for decision-making, it’s also been thought to mediate addiction, learning, and emotion. Among those emotions are feelings of enjoyment, derived from experiences that, in prior studies, have been described as beautiful — a painting, or a song. But is beauty limited to the arts? 
  
 In human psychology, there’s a phenomenon that occurs among the experts of a given field. While beginners of a certain activity, be it table tennis or chess or the violin, start on their path toward mastery by learning the necessary gross motor skills and basic strategy, experts operate on a different plane. Their arsenal of fine motor skills, perceptual acuity, and discreet reactionary differences all culminate to produce a more robust, and indeed, fundamentally different mental picture. 
  
 A famous 1978 study conducted by cognitive scientists Fernand Gobet and Herbert A. Simon showed that chess grandmasters — the highest achievable rank in the game — tend to think in different terms about their moves when time was of the essence. Their subject was Garry Kasparov, the reigning world champion of chess between 1985 and 2000. In the study, Kasparov played against many players simultaneously, taking only 20 seconds per move while his opponents each had roughly three minutes to decide. (Kasparov was off playing his other matches in the meantime.) 
  
 At the end of all the matches, he emerged with a ranking so high, Gobet and Simon could count on one hand who in the world could have beaten him by ranking alone. When they analyzed the gameplay, the team deduced it was his picture-recognition abilities, not his move-by-move calculations, that facilitated his dominance. He didn’t solve each board like a math problem, in other words. He read them like open books. 
  
 Ugly Numbers 
  
 How does this relate to mathematical equations and beauty? While the self-described “mathematically challenged” may only see a pattern of letters, numbers, and funny Greek symbols, math experts see things a little differently — not so unlike an art enthusiast regards a splotchy Jackson Pollock as magnificent. Typically, there is far more behind the work that influences its perceived beauty. 
  
 “Mathematicians used to believe that it is simplicity,” Semir Zeki said, “but Paul Dirac,” — an early leader of quantum mechanics and renowned physicist — “believed that beauty in mathematical equations speaks to more fundamental truths, and indeed it is the element of beauty that somehow certifies the truth.” 
  
 Unlike Gobet and Simon’s observational approach, Zeki and his colleagues put a group of 15 mathematicians in an fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) scanner as they looked at some 60 mathematical equations. They were told to rate them on a scale of beauty and ugliness. When the team looked at the results of the scan, they found the medial orbitofrontal cortex lit up most often alongside perceived beauty, suggesting to the team that “there is something abstract and emotional about beauty.” 
  
 In Zeki’s eyes, the study could hint at a number of implications. On the surface, it helps explain how we humans process notions of beauty — that not all of us regard the same objects as beautiful (a really old idea) because beauty isn’t hardwired into us (a slightly newer idea). It may be the case, Zeki explains, that beauty isn’t necessarily the result of a fascination with symmetry and balance. Beauty could emerge from lopsided, crooked things that still illuminate a deeper truth. 
  
 And ultimately, the study could answer “the most fundamental question of all — whether it is through the experience of beauty that we learn something about our universe and our reaction to it,” Zeki said, “since the brain has developed and evolved in this world and what it finds beautiful must also be related to qualities in our environment and to our needs.” 
  
 Source: Zeki S, Romaya J, Benincasa D, Atiyah M. The experience of mathematical beauty and its neural correlates. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience. 2014. |||||