Alan Pardew's side started brightly and Simon Francis cleared Damien Delaney's goalbound volley off the line.
But Bournemouth recovered well and Matt Ritchie headed wide before Eunan O'Kane's shot was tipped over.
However, they could not break through as Palace extended their unbeaten away run to four matches.
A draw was a fair result in a match in which both teams enjoyed spells of superiority, but in truth this was a disappointing encounter as two of the division's form teams struggled to carve out clear-cut chances.
A point nevertheless sees Crystal Palace climb one place to fifth, while Bournemouth remain 14th.
Media playback is not supported on this device
Having scored 10 goals in their previous five matches - an unbeaten run - Bournemouth would have had high hopes of continuing their fine attacking form.
But they struggled to get going as Palace made the stronger start - with Delaney close to giving Palace the lead after 10 minutes.
Thereafter Eddie Howe's side grew into the game, but a mere two shots on target - both from outside the area - tells the tale of a frustrating afternoon.
And Howe admitted: "It's not a scoreline you'd associate with us. We had the best chances, but we're disappointed not to have worked their keeper more."
While this was hardly a vintage performance from the Eagles, it did demonstrate many of the qualities that have made them such a formidable proposition on the road.
Scott Dann and Damien Delaney gave a typically commanding performance at the back as they totally snuffed out the threat of former Palace striker Glenn Murray and ensured Palace's tally of goals conceded away - seven - remains the lowest in the league.
And in front of the back four James McArthur was excellent, making a team-high four tackles and winning possession on nine occasions - more than anyone else on the pitch.
That solidity was crucial as Palace earned a 36th away point of 2015 - second only to Arsenal.
Media playback is not supported on this device
Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe: "It was a real battle, Palace are a very good side, very physical and we certainly knew we were in a game. But the most pleasing aspect from my perspective was the way we fought and defended set plays, with the aerial threat they've got.
"We're harder to beat now, that's six games unbeaten, confidence is improving and belief is growing. We probably created the best chances but didn't take them. We're now moving into a tough period when we know we'll have to be even better."
Crystal Palace manager Alan Pardew: "Physically and mentally, it was a tough game - you have to take your hat off to Bournemouth as they're relentless. I had to bring on Yohan Cabaye [at half-time] to get some of the ball, and in the last six minutes I think it showed, as Bournemouth couldn't raise a leg by then. But I'm full of admiration for what they [Bournemouth] did. We'll take the point, it moves us up a place, the unbeaten run goes on, we go to the next game."
Bournemouth visit Arsenal on Monday, while Palace face Swansea.