Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers defended his "exemplary" staff after critical remarks by Well boss McGhee following Celtic's 4-3 at Fir Park on Saturday.
Rodgers was unhappy that McGhee had asked the visitors to move their pre-match shooting practice.
McFadden said Davies had shown "a lack of respect".
The row between the two clubs surrounds the area of the pitch Celtic conducted their shooting drills in the warm-up, with the home club asking visitors to use a portable goal rather than the main goal.
McFadden said: "A lot's been made of the situation but Celtic warmed up in the wrong area. They shouldn't have been warming up taking shots into the main goal.
"There's a portable goal provided which by the rules they have to use. We use it, everybody that comes here uses it, but they refused to use it.
"He [Davies] wasn't listening to the groundsman so the manager went up and told him to move and he wasn't happy.
"There was no animosity during the game, nothing back and forward in the dugouts. Chris Davies comes up and doesn't shake hands after the game which for me is a lack of respect.
"The manager took offence and quite rightly so.
"A lot has been said about how the manager reacted but we've gone to Parkhead and lost 5-0. We've taken it on the chin and gone and shook hands and said 'well done you were the better team'."
Scottish Professional Football League rules state that portable goals should be used for goalkeeping drills if provided and that "the goalmouth area shall be used by goalkeepers only if portable goals are not provided or for crossing practice and then only for not more than 20 minutes".
And the rules add that "for the purposes of warming up and warming down each team shall use only part of the pitch between the edge of a penalty area and the halfway line or as otherwise directed by the groundsman".
McFadden said: "Our pitch is probably one of the best in Scotland at the minute and there's a reason for that and we want to keep it that way.
"Everybody else adheres to it, so I don't think that was unsettling them."
The former Scotland forward also revealed the Steelmen had allowed Celtic access to the away dressing room the day before the match.
"Their kitman was in here on Friday putting the kit out at three o'clock," McFadden explained.
"We've still got young boys that need to get changed, need to get showers and we put them out the dressing room. So we were more than accommodating.
"If we were trying to do everything in our power to unsettle them we would have made them put the kit in at the same time as everybody else. They've asked to come in early the day before and that's absolutely fine.
"We're not an unwelcoming club, anybody that comes here are made more than welcome.
"The only issue was we were trying to protect our pitch which we spend a lot of money and time on."