Tigers killed a woman and severely injured a second when they left their vehicle at a wildlife park in Beijing on Saturday, mainland media reports. 
  
 The two women were part of a four-member group being driven through Badaling Safari World, where part of the attraction is how closely the freely roaming lions and tigers can get to the vehicles, according to the Legal Evening News. 
  
 A dispute with the driver broke out, and one of the women opened the door to get out, the report said. A tiger rushed up and snatched her in its jaws and pulled her away. The second woman got out to rescue her, but another tiger attacked and killed her. Park management rescued the first woman, who was sent to hospital and was in stable condition on Sunday, according to the News. 
  
 The report did not give the names of the victims or details about their relationship. 
  
 Visitors to the park, located in the Yanqing district near the Great Wall, are permitted to drive their own vehicles through the area but are warned not to get out. 
  
 The park has been ordered to temporarily close while an investigation is carried out. ||||| Video 
  
 A woman was killed by a tiger over the weekend after jumping out of a car in a Beijing animal park to try to save her daughter from a tiger attack, local government officials said. 
  
 At least one tiger mauled the women on Saturday at Badaling Wildlife World in a section that allows people to drive their own vehicles through a Siberian tiger enclosure, the Yanqing County government said in a written statement. 
  
 Surveillance video that circulated widely online showed a woman exit a car, then walk to the other side of the vehicle, where she was attacked a few seconds later by a tiger. As the animal dragged her away, her husband and mother jumped out in an attempt to rescue her. 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 The woman left the car because of an argument with her husband, reported The Legal Evening News, based in Beijing. The Beijing News, also based in the Chinese capital, quoted a friend of the family who denied that the couple had been fighting. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 The woman who was first attacked was badly injured, and her mother, who left the car in an effort to save her daughter, was killed, The Beijing News reported. The woman’s husband was uninjured, as was their child, who remained in the vehicle, the newspaper said. |||||