She was joined by close friends and fellow 1Xtra presenters for the event near her home in west London.
Newsbeat is following Claira before and after she has her operation on Wednesday 21 January, when doctors will remove most of her breast tissue.
MistaJam and Target were among the DJs who turned up to support Claira.
Both Claira's mum and sister died from breast cancer, and doctors have told Claira she has an 85% chance of developing the disease some day.
Cat Galdeano has been mates with Claira since they were 11 years old.
"Claira is a very determined person. You can't really be too harassing with a person when they are going through something like this. But she knows I'm there."
Cat will be going to the hospital with Claira on the day of the operation.
"I am worried. Obviously with an operation there are always risks. It is major surgery and that is concerning, but I'm going to be there with her and hopefully everything will go to plan," Cat told Newsbeat.
Claira is expecting to spend two days in hospital.
Read more about Claira's story
"I think she's quite confident at the moment but there's part of her that's scared. It's a massive operation and she's probably thinking about the effects afterwards.
"There will be scarring. It's not going to be the same. She's definitely scared, but she puts a brave face on.
"She's not openly said to me that she's worried about it, but I'm sure she is."
Steff Boman, who has known Claira for five years, described Claira's diagnosis as "like an impending doom" and says she wants to see Claira happy and less stressed.
So has it put pressure on their friendship at times?
"If I'm going through something stressful, I think, 'Do I really want to concern her with that?' because I know what she has already got on her mind.
"Having been friends for so many years I know Claira worries about everybody else. She wants to fix everything.
"So it's a case of, 'Do you want to burden her with another thing when she's dealing with so much?'"
MistaJam told Newsbeat: "When I heard about her having the mastectomy I thought she was so brave.
"She's having implants put in so 95% of men won't see a difference. And of those 95% of men, if any of them are after her because of her breasts, they're not the kind of men she needs to go out with."
London Hughes, 25, told Newsbeat that Claira has been incredibly strong but worries that the full impact of the surgery hasn't hit her yet.
"She's like, 'I could have this double mastectomy or die' and she doesn't want to die.
"But I don't think she's realised how much her life will change because of it. When she's healing, when her boobs don't look the same, when her self-confidence [is affected] I don't think that's gone into her brain yet.
"I'm always going to be there for her.
"I'm preparing for her to be needy. I think she'll be selfish. That's fine.
"When she comes out we'll go shopping - make sure she feels good. I'll do whatever I can.
"I will do everything I can. I have never had a friend who has gone through anything like this before.
"I have to be open to whatever she is feeling.
"I keep going on about my day and it pops into my head, 'I hope Claira is OK'.
"At this time in her life, anything she says or does to me, I take it with a pinch of salt.
"If she is angry or upset I just go, 'Remember she's having a double mastectomy'.
"If she wants to be a bitch today, she's having a double mastectomy.
"She's like family. I will always be there for her. I love her."
Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter, BBCNewsbeat on Instagram and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube