There’s a dirty rumor out there today! According to the Tiger Woods hasn’t been totally faithful to his wife Elin Nordegren! Rumor has it the gold champion has been engaging in a fling on the side.The story, which is also being reported by the, suggests Tiger has been having an extramarital affair with a woman named Rachel Uchitel.The woman’s name may seem irrelevant. However,did a little scooping, and found that this is the same woman who was linked to Angel star David Boreanaz!Last month,magazine ran a story claiming Boreanaz had been having an on-going affair with Rachel Uchitel, even while his wife Jaime Bergman was pregnant.Now either this Rachel chick gets around to all the stars, or this is a completely fabricated lie. Tiger Woods seems to be very happy with his wife and their two children, and he’s already got a supermodel wife, so why look elsewhere?Tiger’s camp has yet to respond to the rumors. ||||| and his wife of eight years,, were all lovey-dovey at the opening night of Cirque du Soleil’s Kooza on Oct. 16. But behind their smiles, the couple is dealing with a dark revelation: David cheated on Jaime throughout her recent pregnancy!has learned exclusively that thestar — who welcomed daughtersix weeks ago — was seeing brunette beauty Rachel Uchitel, a NYC events planner, since the spring when he celebrated his 40th birthday at a club she works for, Griffin. “He was attracted to Rachel and asked her for her number,” says an insider. “She gave him her card, and he texted her that night to have a drink with him. She went, and they had a major connection.”During their relationship, which Rachel ended two weeks after Bardot’s birth, David and Rachel saw each other once a month in NYC or L.A., and spoke on the phone or via text message up to 50 times a day! Even though their romance was long-distance, when together, the chemistry was electric. “David would walk in the door, and they’d have sex right away,” reveals the insider. “He told her, ‘Every time I have sex with you is like the first time.’”But although David promised to leave his wife, Rachel tired of sharing him with Jaime and their two children (the couple also has a 7-year-old son). The final straw for Rachel came when David was in the delivery room with Jaime for their daughter’s birth on Aug. 31. “He was on the phone with Rachel, giving updates,” says the insider. “That grossed her out, because she felt that should have been private.” |||||