Three so-called drifters who confessed to killing two people in a brutal crime spree in 2015 were sentenced on Tuesday. Mark Matthews reports. (Published Tuesday, April 18, 2017) 
  
 Three so-called drifters who confessed to killing two people in a brutal crime spree in 2015 were sentenced on Tuesday. 
  
 Morrison Haze Lampley, 24, of San Francisco, and Lila Scott Alligood, 19, of San Rafael, in February pleaded guilty to killing a Canadian tourist in Golden Gate Park and a Marin County therapist in a park near Fairfax. 
  
 Lampley admitted to discharging a firearm and was sentenced to 100 years to life in prison. Alligood, of San Rafael, is eligible for a youthful offender parole hearing after she has served 25 years, Deputy District Attorney Leon Kousharian said. 
  
 As part of their plea, the two defendants waived their right to appeal the convictions, according to Marin County District Attorney Edward Berberian said. 
  
 Drifters Await Sentencing in 2015 Double Murder 
  
 Three so-called drifters who confessed to killing two people in a brutal crime spree in 2015 will be sentenced on Tuesday. Pete Suratos reports. (Published Tuesday, April 18, 2017) 
  
 Third defendant Sean Angold, 25, pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and was sentenced to 15 years to life in prison. He testified under a grant of immunity against his two co-defendants at their preliminary hearing in September. 
  
 Berberian said the disposition of Lampley's and Alligood's cases was reached with extensive discussions with the families of the victims. Several members of Carter's family and Carey's aunt spoke at the sentencing by Marin County Superior Court Judge Kelly Simmons. 
  
 Lampley's expression never changed as he walked into court and looked down throughout the sentencing. In contrast, Alligood, his former girlfriend, cried through most of the testimony from the victim's families. 
  
 "As far as I’m concerned, no punishment however harsh could do justice to the horrific, unforgivable crime that you three have committed — fully intentional and, as far as I’m concerned, without any remorse whatsoever," said Lokita Carter, the wife of Steve Carter. 
  
 Then it was Alligood's turn. 
  
 "I feel so much guilt and shame for the wrongdoings and the hurtful decisions that I made and I’m sorry," she said. 
  
 Angold's attorney read a statement in which his client said he will spend the rest of his days remembering the wrong he's done. He also begged the victims' families to forgive him. 
  
 A statement read by Lampley's attorney said he wished he could go back in time and change things. 
  
 Lokita Carter said she had seen Lampley's letter before it was read aloud in court, but "it left me with nothing," she said. 
  
 When asked if the sentencing will bring closure, the Carters' friend Christina Dejongh replied, "I don’t know if I will ever have it. My feeling is what can compensate for an act like this? I sort of even don’t relate to the punishment." 
  
 "Vengeance," Dejongh said, won't "bring him back." 
  
 Carey befriended the trio in Golden Gate Park, and Lampley shot her in some bushes where they were smoking marijuana, according to Angold's testimony at the hearing. 
  
 Angold testified he heard gunshots, and when he asked Lampley what happened, Lampley replied, "She's dead dude, don't worry about it." 
  
 The trio left with some of her belongings, Angold said. 
  
 Angold also testified that the trio wanted to steal a vehicle and head to Oregon with the intention of growing marijuana. They encountered Carter as he was hiking with his dog in the Loma Alta Open Space Preserve near Fairfax. 
  
 Angold testified he heard several shots but did not see Lampley shoot Carter and his dog about 30 feet away on a trail because his back was turned. 
  
 Angold said Lampley took the keys to Carter's Volkswagen Jetta and blood-soaked money from Carter's pocket. He said Alligood drove them from the scene and he threw the gun, which had been stolen in San Francisco, out of the car's window. Carter's dog survived the shooting. 
  
 Angold also testified the trio was using methamphetamine, marijuana, heroin and LSD in the days before the murders. 
  
 The defendants were arrested in a church dining hall in Portland, Oregon, on Oct. 7. They were tracked there by the Jetta's GPS. 
  
 Defense attorneys attacked Angold's credibility at the preliminary hearing and his grant of immunity to testify against his co-defendants. They also cited Angold's admission during his testimony that he has a history of blaming others for the crimes he has committed, including a residential robbery in Los Angeles and thefts from a Wal-Mart store. 
  
 The three defendants were apologetic during the two-hour sentencing in Marin County Superior Court this morning, and Alligood broke down during her brief statement, Kousharian said. 
  
 None of the defendants made any references to the facts of the case against them, Kousharian said. ||||| SAN RAFAEL (KRON) — The three convicted murderers known as the ‘The Drifters’ were sentenced in a Marin County courtroom Tuesday. 
  
 Sean Angold was sentenced to 15 years to life for the second-degree murder of Steve Carter. 
  
 Lila Alligood was sentenced to 50 years to life for the first-degree murders of Steve Carter and Audrey Carey. 
  
 Alligood’s attorney says she could be eligible for parole in 8 years. 
  
 Morrison Lampley was sentenced to 100 years to life for the two murders. 
  
 Lampley and Alligood made plea deals for the murders of tourist Audrey Carey, 23, of Quebec in Golden Gate Park on Oct. 2, 2015, and sex therapist Steven Carter, 67, of Marin County on Oct. 5, 2015, on a park trail in Fairfax. 
  
 Angold said he stole the gun used in the murders from an unlocked vehicle in San Francisco and helped plan the robberies, but said Lampley killed the victims. Angold said he and the defendants were using drugs, including LSD, heroin, and methamphetamine, during the week they were traveling together in the Bay Area and Oregon where they were arrested Oct. 7, 2015. 
  
 Alligood cried throughout the hearing, as family members addressed them in court. She was the only one to read a statement in court. The other two had statements asking for forgiveness but their attorney’s read them. 
  
 Steve Carter’s ex-wife read a letter from his son, his daughter spoke in court as did his widow Lakita Carter. She also played a video of her victim impact statement taped after the arrest, where her hair was gone, from the breast cancer treatments she underwent. 
  
 Also a relative of Audrey Carey read a letter from Carey’s mom. 
  
 STORIES OTHERS ARE CLICKING ON: 
  
 CLEVELAND FACEBOOK KILLER IS DEAD 
  
 EARTH’S CLOSE ENCOUNTER WITH MASSIVE ASTEROID 
  
 BENICIA TEACHER ARRESTED FOR SEXUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH STUDENT 
  
 GIANTS MANAGER BRUCE BOCHY UNDERGOES HEART PROCEDURE 
  
 MORE TOP STORIES ||||| Victims’ families cry as killers are sentenced in Marin County 
  
 A year and a half after a pair of savage murders, the families of Audrey Carey and Steve Carter remain haunted by thoughts about their loved ones’ final moments. 
  
 Were the victims scared, the families wonder, as they realized the dark motives of the three drifters who targeted them almost randomly amid a drug-fueled crime spree? Were they in pain when they died, Carey in a secluded spot in San Francisco’s Golden Gate Park and Carter on a remote hiking trail in Marin County? 
  
 These emotions spilled out in a Marin County courtroom Tuesday as the ringleader in the slayings, 24-year-old Morrison Haze Lampley, was sentenced to 100 years to life in prison for first-degree murder. He shot both Carey, a 23-year-old Canadian backpacker, and Carter, a 67-year-old tantric yoga instructor. 
  
 Lampley’s girlfriend, Lila Scott Alligood, 19, got 50 years to life, while a third defendant, 25-year-old Sean Michael Angold, was given 15 years to life for second-degree murder in connection with Carter’s death. 
  
 “She trusted you, you three unspeakable monsters,” said Isabelle Tremblay, Carey’s mother, in a statement read in the San Rafael courtroom by a prosecutor. “And you stole her from me. 
  
 “You are proof that evil exists,” Tremblay said. 
  
 Though the sentencing closed a case that stunned the Bay Area, the families made clear that they’ll never fully recover from the events of October 2015. 
  
 “It’s not like those people just killed Steve,” said Lokita Carter, the victim’s widow. “They killed a huge chunk of me. They killed a whole other part of another human being.” 
  
 All three defendants pleaded guilty in deals that were endorsed by the victims’ families. Angold had pleaded guilty last May, while agreeing to testify against the other two if the case went to a jury trial. 
  
 Angold said during a preliminary hearing that the violence began when the three took a handgun from an unlocked truck near Coit Tower in San Francisco. He had planned to join Lampley and Alligood as they traveled to Oregon with dreams of starting a pot farm, Angold said, but soon after finding the gun, they crossed paths with Carey near Ocean Beach. 
  
 The drifters befriended Carey, who was on her first solo backpacking trip, but planned to rob her because “she was foreign and possibly had money,” Angold said. He said the robbery went awry as they sat in thick brush in Golden Gate Park. 
  
 Carey had just thanked the three for being her friends, according to testimony, when Alligood tackled her and Lampley held the gun to her head. Angold, who had been trying to tie up Carey’s legs, heard a pop, and he said Lampley told him, “She’s dead, dude. Don’t worry about it.” 
  
 Emily Hansen, Carter’s daughter, questioned how the three could have “no remorse” after killing Carey and go on to kill her father. 
  
 Angold said that while they had initially intended only to rob Carey, they targeted Carter for death because they wanted his station wagon. Alligood was the one who chose Carter, Angold said, and they followed him as he walked his Doberman pinscher, Coco, down a popular trail northwest of Fairfax. 
  
 Lampley shot him and his dog. The three then rifled through Carter’s pockets for his keys and wallet, which had been pierced by a bullet, and used the ripped, bloody cash to buy gas and cigarettes in Point Reyes. 
  
 “Three people killed my dad, for what?” Hansen sobbed. “A little cash? A car? 
  
 “I wish they would have just given him the chance to give them his cash, his car,” she said. “He wasn’t there to walk me down the aisle at my wedding. When I have kids, they will never be able to know their grandfather. And how do I tell them how he died?” 
  
 All three were arrested two days after Carter’s death outside a Portland, Ore., soup kitchen after authorities tracked the station wagon’s GPS device. 
  
 During Tuesday’s hearing, Alligood wept as the families delivered their victim impact statements. Angold’s head hung for the entire proceeding, and he cried as well. Lampley showed no emotion, spending the majority of the sentencing staring blankly ahead. His attorney, Chief Deputy Public Defender David Brown, read a statement Lampley wrote to the court. 
  
 “I wish I could go back in time and change things,” he said. “I know I cannot ask for your forgiveness, but I hope you find peace some day.” 
  
 Brown said Lampley had lived a life of “neglect, homelessness, abuse and mental illness,” with a psychiatrist once describing him as a “feral child.” 
  
 “This is not offered as an excuse,” Brown said, “but as an attempt to understand why we’re all here.” 
  
 Angold also prepared a statement to both families that his attorney, Terrence Bennett, read on his behalf, saying, “I have no excuses to offer, but can only hope at this time to earn a small measure of forgiveness.” 
  
 Alligood read her statement herself in a shaky voice. “I would like to say I’m truly sorry,” she said. “I’m so sorry for what I did, the decisions I made and the indescribable pain I’ve caused others.” 
  
 But Deputy District Attorney Leon Kousharian objected to any suggestion that Alligood was a bystander in the killings. 
  
 “She paints herself as a victim who got caught up in all this,” he said. “She was an active participant. She was the one who jumped on Ms. Carey. She was the one who selected Mr. Carter.” 
  
 “It was the drugs and the love she had for Mr. Lampley,” said her attorney, Amy Morton, outside court. “It was a very twisted type of companionship. They were both people who had holes in their hearts, and when they met each other, they got involved in heavy drugs.” 
  
 Under California’s youthful offender program, which grants earlier parole eligibility for any prisoner who was under 23 at the time of the offense, Alligood will be eligible for parole in 25 years. 
  
 “She’s culpable and she understands that, but she doesn’t understand it to the degree that our society wants her to understand it,” Morton said. “She will.” 
  
 Vivian Ho is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: vho@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @VivianHo |||||