The University of Chicago on June 14 launched the UChicago Empower Initiative, a test-optional admissions process to enhance the accessibility of its undergraduate College for first-generation and low-income students. The first top-ranked college to institute a test-optional policy, along with increased financial aid and programmatic resources, UChicago will enable more students to pursue higher education, regardless of background, geographic location or ability to pay. 
  
 A strategic initiative to address key barriers encountered by underserved and underrepresented students, the UChicago Empower Initiative has three areas of focus: the use of technology for greater flexibility in the admissions process, including making submissions of standardized test scores optional; increased financial support, on-campus programming and online resources for first-generation, rural and underrepresented students, with full tuition aid for students whose families earn less than $125,000; and new scholarships and access programs to recognize those who serve our country and local communities. Each aims to empower historically underrepresented communities in the highly selective admissions process by increasing equity and access. 
  
 “Today, many under-resourced and underrepresented students, families and school advisers perceive top-ranked colleges as inaccessible if students do not have the means to help them stand out in the application process,” said James G. Nondorf, vice president and dean of Admissions at the University of Chicago. “The UChicago Empower Initiative levels the playing field, allowing first-generation and low-income students to use technology and other resources to present themselves as well as any other college applicant. We want students to understand the application does not define you—you define the application.” 
  
 “The UChicago Empower Initiative continues the University and College’s unwavering commitment to access and inclusion,” said John W. Boyer, dean of the College. “Throughout the past century, UChicago has considered a broad diversity of cultural perspectives and academic merit without regard to socio-economic class to be fundamental—as exemplified by our Odyssey Scholarship Program, Jeff Metcalf Internship Program and No Barriers offerings that enable outstanding students of all backgrounds to enjoy a UChicago education. We are delighted to now also provide an admissions process that makes UChicago even more accessible by enabling students to present their best, most authentic selves.” 
  
 Rollout of the UChicago Empower Initiative will begin with the Class of 2023. Specific offerings will include: 
  
 Free tools and new flexibility in the application process 
  
 New test-optional policy that allows students to decide what information best represents their skills and college readiness. 
  
 New optional two-minute video introduction opportunity open to all students (replacing the optional alumni and on-campus interviews). 
  
 New opportunities to submit non-standard materials and accomplishments as supplements to the application. 
  
 New option for domestic students to self-submit transcripts to eliminate fees and simplify the application process. 
  
 New and expanding partnerships with MyinTuition, RaiseMe, The College Board, Making Caring Common, Nudge for College, Turning the Tide, and the Coalition for Access, Affordability and Success. 
  
 New scholarships, support, and programming for underserved students and families 
  
 UChicago will guarantee free tuition for families with incomes under $125,000 per year (with typical assets). 
  
 Families earning less than $60,000 (with typical assets) will have tuition, fees, room and board covered by financial aid. 
  
 Students who are the first in their families to attend college will receive a $20,000 scholarship over four years and a guaranteed paid internship for their first summer. 
  
 New, free mentoring technology provided by Wisr to further alumni mentorship and support for first-generation and low-income students. 
  
 Following the success of the Neubauer Adelante Summer Scholars program for students engaged in Latino/Hispanic communities, UChicago will launch the Allison Davis Jr. Education Summit and the UChicago Women’s Board sponsorship of Summer Scholars Program for African-American Students—fully funded summer opportunities for talented high school students seeking to explore a highly selective college experience at UChicago. 
  
 New funding for professional development programming for counselors from rural high schools 
  
 Expanded Student Opportunities and Aspirations Roadmap for Success program, which provides admissions workshops through partnerships with school districts in Illinois. 
  
 Membership in the American Talent Initiative, a coalition of colleges and universities committed to engaging and enrolling outstanding students from low- and moderate-income households. 
  
 Recognizing those who serve our country and our communities 
  
 New full-tuition scholarships nationwide for select children of police officers and firefighters, expanding on the current Police & Fire Scholarships for the City of Chicago. 
  
 New partnership with the Posse Foundation’s Veterans Program, with an undergraduate Veterans Posse cohort entering UChicago in Autumn 2020. 
  
 Expanded outreach activities to help veterans and families learn more about UChicago’s Yellow Ribbon partnership and GI Bill funding for all veterans. 
  
 New and expanded partnerships with Warrior-Scholars Project and College Recon. 
  
 For more information, visit: https://collegeadmissions.uchicago.edu/empower. ||||| CHICAGO (CBS) — The prestigious University of Chicago is eliminating the requirement to submit ACT or SAT scores as part of the application process, becoming the first top-10 research university to do so. 
  
 Some liberal arts colleges already have dropped SAT and ACT testing requirements, but the University of Chicago would be the first major research university to make those exams optional. 
  
 Beginning with the class of 2023, the private university in the Hyde Park neighborhood also will allow applicants to submit a two-minute video introduction rather than requiring a face-to-face interview. Applicants also would be allowed to provide their own school transcripts to eliminate fees. 
  
 The university also will provide full tuition aid for families earning less than $125,000 a year; $20,000 annual scholarships and paid summer internships for applicants who are first-generation college students; and added funding for veterans and children of veterans, police officers, and firefighters. The university already covers all education costs for veterans and their children who participate in the Yellow Ribbon program. 
  
 University officials said the moves are designed to level the playing field for lower-income families and first-generation students. 
  
 The school also will offer new mentoring programs for first-generation and low-income students. 
  
 “The UChicago Empower Initiative continues the University and College’s unwavering commitment to access and inclusion,” said John W. Boyer, dean of the College of the University of Chicago. 
  
 For more information on the university’s new admissions initiatives, click here. ||||| CHICAGO (AP) — The University of Chicago is becoming the first major U.S. research university to stop requiring American undergraduate applicants to submit ACT or SAT scores. 
  
 The decision that school officials say is designed to help even the playing field for students from low-income or underrepresented communities has been made by some liberal arts colleges but the school is the first major research university to do so. 
  
 The university also said Thursday that it will provide full-tuition aid for students whose families earn less than $125,000 and offer new scholarships to military veterans and children of veterans, police officers and firefighters. The school will also let applicants submit a video introduction instead of requiring that they sit for an interview 
  
 Rollout of the initiative will begin with the class of 2023. |||||