Millepied, who joined the company in November 2014 and was set to unveil his new season next week, said he was leaving "for personal reasons".
He is married to Natalie Portman, having worked with the actress for her performance as an obsessed ballerina in 2010 film Black Swan.
Millepied had recently criticised the ballet company in a documentary.
In a statement posted on Twitter, Millepied - who has also directed films and music videos - said the role did not give him enough time for "creation and artistic expression".
He said he had originally accepted the position with "great honour and gratitude" and expressed his love for the company.
Millepied added that he would continue to work with the company during the current season and the next, adding that he would stay to help find a successor.
The behind-the-scenes programme, shown in France shortly before Christmas, saw him say performances sometimes looked like "wallpaper... and were deadly boring".s
In the documentary, broadcast on Canal+, he also said the ballet was too hierarchical and beset by internal competition.
He was seen urging his dancers to "let themselves go" in classical ballet pieces in the same way they do in more contemporary performances, saying: "Is this no fun?".
He also said the ballet was not as "excellent" as it claimed to be, but added that its troupe could be "perhaps the best modern dance group in the world".
A former principal dancer with the New York City Ballet, Millepied left that company in 2011 to found the LA Dance Project.
Millepied has a four-year-old son, Aleph, with Portman, who won the best actress Oscar for Darren Aronofsky film Black Swan.
They live together in Paris but it has been reported that Portman, set to play Jackie Kennedy in a forthcoming biopic, wants to refocus her career in Hollywood.
A ballet choreographed by Millepied, La nuit s'acheve, is due to open on Friday as part of a triple bill staged by the Paris Opera Ballet.
Founded in 1661 by Louis XIV, it is the oldest and one of the most prestigious ballet companies in the world.