LODI (CBS13) – It was Laverne Everett’s sister who posted her skydiving video on YouTube to share with family from out-of-state, not knowing that Laverne would become an internet sensation. 
  
 She is the newest star in the latest video that’s gone viral overnight. 
  
 “I just wanted to do it,” Laverne said laughing. 
  
 This daredevil is 81 years old. 
  
 Laverne, who lives in a modest studio apartment in small California town of Oakdale, says she craves a little excitement once in a while. So in 2011 for her 80th birthday she decided to jump out of a plane, much to the surprise of her family. 
  
 “They thought I was very brave,” said Laverne. “But, it’s just something I’ve wanted to do for a long time.” 
  
 Watch our extended interview with Laverne 
  
 Last May, Laverne did just that at the Sky Dive Lodi Parachute Center in Acampo. Her jump out of that plane, and the moments before, were all caught on tape. 
  
 “Once you get on that edge, that’s another story,” said Laverne. 
  
 As you watch the video, you see what appears to be Laverne clutching the plane for dear life, but she says her bad knees actually gave out. Then, the instructor behind her grabs her hand. 
  
 But looking at the video, it appears that Laverne was being forced out of that plane. She doesn’t see it that way. 
  
 “No, I don’t look at it that way,” said Laverne. “He knew how bad I wanted to jump.” 
  
 When she did finally jump, something went terribly wrong and Laverne was suddenly dangling in mid-air. 
  
 “The upper harness came off, you know. Just slipped down, it was just the lower harness, is all I had.” 
  
 Laverne says her shirt flew up against her face so she couldn’t see a thing and didn’t realize exactly what happened until she saw the video for herself. 
  
 The Federal Aviation Administration confirmed Friday it is now investigating the incident. 
  
 WATCH: Parachute Center Tainted With Accidents, Safety Issues 
  
 The Parachute Center has had several accidents in recent history. 
  
 A woman skydiving with the center in 2009 lost control plunged straight toward Highway 99 before slamming into a power pole. 
  
 Months later, Robbie Bigley and Barb Cutty died while performing a formation jump because their parachutes became entangled. 
  
 In April, experienced skydiver William Calho plunged to his death in a vineyard. It marked at least the eighth death for the company in 10 years. 
  
 “Statistically, nationally for the number of jumps we do, we’re as safe as any other place,” said Parachute Center owner Bill Dause following Calho’s death. 
  
 The FAA has proposed more than $900,000 in fines against his company in the past year and a half for safety concerns with the company’s planes. 
  
 WATCH: Public Weighs In On 80-Year-Old Skydiving Woman ||||| Laverne Everett may have had 79 previous birthdays, but it's fair to say that this one was probably the worst. 
  
 To celebrate her 80th last May, the octogenarian chose to go skydiving, something she'd wanted to do for at least ten years. But the jump didn't go as planned, and now her sister has posted the video to YouTube to share, CBS Sacramento reports. 
  
 VIDEO AT TOP 
  
 While still on terra firma, Laverne says in the video that she's excited about the jump, which took place at the Parachute Center in Lodi, Calif. But when it's time to take the plunge, she appears to be [understandably] reluctant jump out of the plane, holding on to the sides of the aircraft. The man jumping with her finally frees her hands, and the duo tumbles. 
  
 But something goes terribly wrong early in the jump. Laverne appears to nearly fall out of the harness, and her partner hangs on to her for dear life. 
  
 “The upper harness came off, you know," she said in a recent interview with CBS Sacramento, available below. "Just slipped down, it was just the lower harness, is all I had.” 
  
 Fortunately, the parachute deploys and the pair lands. The video ends with people on the ground rushing over to the aid of the Laverne and her partner. 
  
 “This happened a long time ago and everything worked as advertised,” Bill Dause, the owner of the Parachute Center, said in a statement to ABC News. “No one got hurt or injured.” 
  
 But the Parachute Center has had its share of accidents. According to CBS Sacramento, at least eight people have died at the Parachute Center in the last decade, most recently in April. 
  
 News10 reports that the facility may have to pay $900,000 in fines to the FAA for incidents unrelated to Everett's. Additionally, News10 also reports that the company is facing at least three civil lawsuits. 
  
 ABC News spoke to the Federal Aviation Administration about this specific incident, so click over there to learn about what the FAA is doing about Everett's jump. 
  
 According to the United States Parachute Association, 21 fatal skydiving accidents were recorded in the United States in 2010. In 2009, 16 fatal accidents were recorded. |||||