Annie Lowrey asks: What is the most perfectly average place in America? Tyler Cowen nominates Knoxville. Matt Yglesias nominates Jacksonville. As a former marketing weenie, I say we should let the free market decide. Back in 2004, Acxiom ranked the top 150 consumer test markets in the United States based on their overall characteristics: age, marital status, home ownership, estimated income, etc. America's Fortune 500 companies put their money where their mouths are by conducting expensive and critical tests of their yummy new products in these aggressively average cities. Here are the top ten: 
  
 Albany, NY Rochester, NY Greensboro, NC Birmingham, AL Syracuse, NY Charlotte, NC Nashville, TN Springfield, OR Wichita, KS Richmond, VA 
  
 In fairness, there's more than just averageness that makes for a good test market. You also want a place that's not too big and has reasonable advertising rates. Here is Neeli Bandapudi of Ohio State University explaining on NPR why Columbus is a pretty good test market: 
  
 So Columbus, Middle America, it was the idea that it truly was representative of the broader trends of the nation. And, of course, it's not just that. You want to make sure that it's a location where it's not dominated by one employer or one cause, because you want to get a variety of opinions there. Maybe it's the demographics of the people that you're trying to reach and also a variety of shopping outlets and a variety of media outlets, so you can see how it would actually play. Because advertising — there's no point in just putting it in the store. You got to let people know it's there. Indeed. Without that, you know, you might not be very successful. 
  
 Anyway, there you go. The free market has answered this question for us. Isn't the free market wonderful? ||||| That is a question from Annie Lowrey, who recognizes its (supposed) “extreme folly.” 
  
 I’ve thought about this for years, and always Knoxville, Tennessee comes to mind. Knoxville is big enough to be something, but not a truly large metropolis, being only the third largest city in Tennessee. It is educated enough to avoid some of the more stereotypical features of the South and indeed it was recently named the #2 “reading city” in America. It has elements of the South and of Appalachia, two major regions of the country. Eleven percent of Knox County adults are “binge drinkers.” It is not one of “12 American boomtowns.” 
  
 What else in America might be typical? 
  
 Here are nominations of Muncie, Indiana and Kansas City, MO. 
  
 Ethnically speaking, Wichita Falls is close to the national norm. 
  
 According to this article, high poverty and unemployment are wrecking the averageness of Peoria, Illinois. 
  
 Louisville is not a bad pick. 
  
 Obviously we must rule out NY, CA, TX, and probably any coastal state as well. I can see the virtues of selecting a Kansas City suburb, which picks up elements of both the South and the Midwest, but I fear that is in a way too typical. The most average place in the United States is in fact just a bit off and has some flavor of its own and choosing Knoxville picks up that too. 
  
 Addendum: Matt Yglesias selects Jacksonville, Florida. Kevin Drum cites marketers in favor of Albany, NY. ||||| The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine 
  
 This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds) 
  
 The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public. |||||