The instructions on the bottle are simple enough: Shake before use. Mist twice daily as needed. 
  
 But the science behind the $49 spray solution from the Cambridge startup AOBiome can be a little hard to fathom. It uses living bacteria that the company says make your skin clean and fresh. 
  
 Around 2000, when MIT-trained engineer David Whitlock hit the scientific conference circuit to explain his theories on how bacteria had kept our pre-soap ancestors clean, most people thought he was nuts. It didn’t help that he cuts a classic zany-professor figure, with thick glasses and white wisps of hair surrounding a shiny pate, or that he says he hasn’t showered in 15 years because the organisms he uses on himself daily are killed by store-bought soaps. 
  
 “He was kind of a lovable oddball at these meetings,” said Dennis Stuehr, a professor of molecular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic who met Whitlock at a conference in Japan in 2002. “People would bend over and he would spray it into their scalp.” 
  
 But there has been a sea change in scientific understanding of the multitude of bacteria that inhabit the body. And Whitlock’s AO+ Mist, which hit the market last year, has found a small but earnest following among young urban professionals who are experimenting with nontraditional approaches to staying healthy and clean. 
  
 BetaBoston Player. Player build from BostonGlobe.com player. 
  
 Not that these early adopters need to go to Whitlock’s showerless extreme. On Tuesday, the company will start selling a bacteria-friendly shower gel and a shampoo, giving consumers the option of using its mist without abandoning more conventional ablutions. 
  
 Whitlock, 60, says the human skin once played host to bacteria that served as personal groomers, eating through sweat and oils. When we adopted soaps and shampoos, we were clean but the chemicals eviscerated all the good bacteria. 
  
 So what? 
  
 Whitlock argues that the bacteria feed off urea and ammonia in sweat from the skin, turning them into nitric oxide. 
  
 Nitric oxide is a small molecule with a huge role to play in the body. Among its duties: dilating blood vessels to reduce blood pressure and control erections. In 1992, it was Science magazine’s “molecule of the year”; by 1998, the researchers who first demonstrated its effects earned a Nobel prize. 
  
 Photo 1 of 8 From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) From the invention of soap to the antibacterial hand sanitizer, click through to see all the ways we have waged war on the bacteria that live on our skin. (Image: David Butler/The Boston Globe) 
  
 But until Whitlock came along, no one had considered that skin bacteria could be a source of something that could help the body in many ways. 
  
 “I didn’t have a biology degree — I wasn’t at an institution that was renowned for its biological research,” Whitlock said, remembering those early years. “And I was proposing something that was completely off the wall.” 
  
 AOBiome now has 11 full-time employees, many who regularly use the AO+ Mist. Pictured: Jasmina Aganovic, general manager of consumer products, and Larry Weiss, chief medical officer. 
  
 Researchers now realize microbes are more abundant in the body than human cells themselves. 
  
 In 2008, the National Institutes of Health invested $115 million in the Human Microbiome Project. That and other global efforts have revealed that the bacteria work as a trillion nodes in a networked switchboard, modulating digestion, immune responses, and even moods and stress. 
  
 And, as if on cue, a research group from New York University this year revealed an inventory of bacteria from an isolated tribe in the Venezuelan Amazon that lives in close contact with the soil and doesn’t practice modern hygiene or use antibiotics. Among the bugs thriving abundantly on their skin are species related to the bacteria Whitlock has been carrying around in his spray bottle. 
  
 Now at AOBiome, Whitlock is commercializing the idea that was once just a curiosity. 
  
 Photo 1 of 4 Bottles filled with AO + Mist are weighed for quality control at Impact Technology Development in Devens. 100ml bottles of the "Mother Dirt" mist get filled with a solution containing live bacteria. This 200 liter sterile bag contains the cell suspension. The bag vibrates to keep the cells mixed and the product is pumped into the small bottles. 100ml bottles of the "Mother Dirt" mist get filled with a solution containing live bacteria. Bottles filled with AO + Mist are weighed for quality control at Impact Technology Development in Devens. 
  
 The company, headquartered at the Cambridge Innovation Center in Kendall Square, says thousands of people have tried AOBiome’s mist since it went on sale a little over a year ago, originally at $99 a bottle. The new shower gel and shampoo will each sell for $15 a bottle. 
  
 There’s a newfound appreciation for biological design, said Jasmina Aganovic, the company’s general manager of product. “It’s really challenging existing conventions of what it means to be clean and what it means to be healthy.” 
  
 The new branding is a cheeky allusion to a return-to-nature vibe: The company is calling its line Mother Dirt. After all, Whitlock’s bacterial isolates live in the soil. 
  
  
  
 AOBiome’s new line of Mother Dirt products are challenging customers to “rethink clean.” They including the AO+ Mist containing live bacteria, a bacteria-safe cleanser, and a bacteria-safe shampoo. 
  
 AOBiome’s first products are being sold as cosmetics — the company currently makes no health claims. But there are kernels of evidence to support Whitlock’s early controversial ideas that the bacteria have profound and far-reaching effects. 
  
 After AOBiome’s user community reported seeing skin conditions like eczema and acne clear up after using the bacterial spray, the company commissioned studies and began gathering evidence for its dermatological effects. In June, the Food and Drug Administration approved a stage-II clinical trial to investigate the medical effects of the bacteria on acne. 
  
 Jamie Heywood, the co-founder of Patients Like Me, an organization and online community where patients with rare diseases can connect, is an early funder of AOBiome and serves as the company’s chairman. When Whitlock first visited his office to explain his idea in 2004, he brought samples in old Poland Spring water bottles covered in tin foil. 
  
 “There’s a moment of time when you’re looking at David, and you’re thinking: This is either completely insane or really, really interesting. And that doesn’t go away,” Heywood said. He took the serum home and decided to give it a try. 
  
 “I tried to be the skeptical scientist,” he remembers. “But the answer was if I used it, I didn’t need deodorant. My topical allergies were dramatically less worse.” When the patent office granted Whitlock his second patent in 2010, Heywood decided to help launch the company. 
  
 AOBiome has 11 employees and is led by a cadre of alumni from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who’ve held senior positions at small and large biotech companies. Whitlock serves as the company’s founding scientist. 
  
 With an undisclosed amount of angel funding and a product on sale, AOBiome has a chance to scientifically test Whitlock’s idea that the bacteria’s nitric oxide soaks into the skin for lasting health effects. 
  
 To the Cleveland Clinic’s Stuehr, AOBiome’s success validates that glimmer of genius he saw more than a decade ago. 
  
 “You need to have people coming in from the outside, coming up with ideas that seem crazy at first, even,” he said. “But that’s how discoveries are made.” ||||| SHARE THIS ARTICLE Share Tweet Post Email 
  
 Photographer: Brea Souders for Bloomberg Businessweek Photographer: Brea Souders for Bloomberg Businessweek 
  
 Most startups have a fridge full of beer. At AOBiome in Cambridge, Mass., there’s no room for booze. The shelves are loaded with bottles of the biotech company’s signature product, a live-bacteria solution to spritz on the face and body. The spray is intended to help reduce a user’s dependence on soap, deodorant, and moisturizer. “It’s a challenging concept,” says Jasmina Aganovic, AOBiome’s general manager for consumer products. “We live in a world with Purell on every corner.” 
  
 To make spray-on bacteria more appealing, AOBiome is reintroducing its line this summer under a new name, Mother Dirt, a reference to the soil from which the key ingredient is derived. The company also created playful packaging and is releasing bacteria-friendly shampoo and cleanser. “We’ve been glued to our computer screens watching the response online,” Aganovic says on relaunch day in early July. She’s standing in AOBiome’s office, a windowless room with red walls near the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “This is our best day ever,” she adds. Hundreds of orders have come in, sometimes as many as 10 per minute. Almost half are from new customers. 
  
 The idea behind the $49 mist goes back to the late 1990s, when the company’s founding scientist, David Whitlock, an MIT-trained chemical engineer, went on a date with a bubbly fifth-grade teacher, who asked him why her horse liked rolling in the dirt. Hoping to impress her, Whitlock began brainstorming and eventually realized that ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in the soil must be helping the animal clean itself. “I read a few hundred papers and realized if horses evolved this behavior, it must be important,” he says. 
  
 Aganovic on relaunch day. Photographer: Dina Litovsky for Bloomberg Businessweek 
  
 Romance never blossomed with the teacher, but Whitlock continued reading up on biology, gathering soil samples, and growing bacteria in his basement. AOBs, he learned, convert the urea and ammonia in sweat—which is abrasive to the skin, causing acne and irritation—into nitrite, which fights most bad bacteria, and nitric oxide, which has anti-inflammatory properties. Whitlock concluded that the useful bacteria once lived on humans, too, at least until we began sterilizing our body with countless lotions and potions. 
  
 AOBiome is the first cosmetics company to market a product that purposely contains live bacteria—they don’t cause illness, even if ingested—which sets Mother Dirt apart from the glut of recent scientific skin-care items. Other companies, including giants L’Oréal and Estée Lauder, are also investigating the role of bacteria in healthy skin. Clinique advertises “probiotic technology,” though its products contain preservatives that may kill living strains. (Clinique didn’t respond to requests for comment.) Earlier this year, scientists at New York University Langone Medical Center published an inventory of bacteria living on members of the isolated Yanomami tribe in Venezuela’s Amazon. Its members don’t use Western hygiene products or antibiotics—and incidentally have few skin problems. 
  
 The rebranded products. Photographer: Brea Souders for Bloomberg Businessweek 
  
 Topical bacteria products are aimed at a culture that’s increasingly all-natural. “It wasn’t too long ago that the parents who gave their babies organic baby food were considered extremist,” says David Finkel, an investor in AOBiome. “Today, if you don’t do that, you’re considered a bad parent.” Larry Weiss, the company’s chief medical officer, points to the American obsession with yogurt containing live cultures. “Look, if I told you 10 years ago that major food companies would be selling that,” he says, “you’d have been shocked.” 
  
 On a hunch in 2000, Whitlock began adding AOB to water and dousing himself daily. He dispensed with all modern hygiene, because soaps, even natural ones, kill the microbes, as do the preservatives in most products. As he suspected, the bacteria kept him clean and odor-free. It’s been about 12 years since Whitlock’s last shower. His skin looks great, and he smells perfectly fine. 
  
 He never intended to sell his tonic as a beauty product. But in 2010, he won a broad-ranging patent for all application of AOBs to the human body. Three years later, Whitlock co-founded AOBiome as a pharmaceutical company focused on getting U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for bacteria-based prescription therapies for acne, eczema, rosacea, wound healing, and more. The team raised two rounds of seed funding from more than a dozen angel investors for undisclosed sums. Then they began developing a cosmetic spray to test the concept outside the lab, reasoning that skin-care products are cheaper to get on the market than medications. 
  
 They recruited subjects to try the mist for a month. Their product went viral after one guinea pig, New York Times writer Julia Scott, wrote about cutting out her personal-care regime. After suffering through an initial phase of greasy hair and smelliness, she fell for the idea. “For the first time ever, my pores seemed to shrink,” she wrote. But the product wasn’t officially for sale yet. Preorders flew in, and the company, which employed four people at the time, was backlogged for months. 
  
 Early adopters were largely urban professionals, not tree-huggers. “They’re young people who take an active role in their health and don’t necessarily think their doctor knows best,” AOBiome’s Aganovic says. Men and women ordered the product in equal numbers; many were the type who take probiotics and follow a paleo-style diet. “We have a lot of entrepreneurs,” she says. “People have called us the Soylent of skin care.” 
  
 “It wasn’t too long ago that the parents who gave their babies organic baby food were considered extremist” 
  
 I was one of these people. I’ve been using the spray on my face for a year. I still bathe every day—the company doesn’t bill itself as a replacement for showers—and wash with regular facial cleanser occasionally, plus wear bacteria-killing sunscreen now that it’s summer. But I rely on the mist. Over the winter my skin, which normally turns horribly dry even while using serious moisturizers, was noticeably less irritated. 
  
 When friends comment that my complexion looks nice, I tell them about the spray. None have adopted it. One famous makeup blogger looked at me with sheer disbelief, and perhaps horror, when I told her I put bacteria on my face. Many other users refrain from telling anyone at all they’re hooked on bacteria. It didn’t help that the original spray had a sterile, scientific look, with an awkwardly protruding nozzle. 
  
 Whitlock in his office. Photographer: Dina Litovsky for Bloomberg Businessweek 
  
 Hence the rebranding. Aganovic, 28, with a degree in chemical biological engineering from MIT, came up with new tag lines—“Rethink Clean” and “Go Ahead, Get a Little Dirty”—that she says sounded “edgy but not alienating.” They chose the name Mother Dirt to highlight the nurturing side of soil. (“Dirt is magic,” she adds.) At one point, Aganovic and creative director Mark Drury considered using dreamy images of people dancing through a cloud of dust for the package design. But the resulting test photos, staged using all-purpose flour and the two of them in their undies, were dismissed as too feminine. The end product looks like something you’d find on the shelves of REI, with a logo featuring a small androgynous blob. “We call him Mr. Speck, as in speck of dirt,” Drury says. 
  
 In July, on relaunch day, Whitlock sits at his desk wearing his usual uniform: wire-rimmed glasses, flannel button-down, jeans, and hiking boots. He’s often lost in thought. For his 60th birthday in January, his entire staff came to work dressed like him—he didn’t even notice. His desk is littered with empty cardboard boxes, a container of latex gloves, and a coffee mug, emblazoned with the logo of the antidepressant Sertraline. “I’ve been on it for 20 years,” he says. After a pause, he adds: “Putting this bacteria on my skin did more for my mental health in terms of depression, PTSD, anxiety, and Asperger’s than 20 years of Sertraline and psychotherapy.” Because of federal regulations, the company makes no claims about the spray’s potential mental or cosmetic benefits. But Whitlock’s personal results are what drives his interest in the work. “We need to do clinical trials,” he says. “My biggest fear is the FDA shutting us down if they think we’re making false claims.” 
  
 The team, now 11 people, hopes to make pharmaceutical breakthroughs and earn revenue from existing and new patents. This spring the FDA gave the company the go-ahead for a Phase II study to develop an AOB-based acne medication. If all goes well, it will be available by 2017. The startup remains unprofitable, though it has enough capital from investors to conduct expensive pharma trials. And if enough people start buying supplies of mist, shampoo, and cleanser—a monthly regime that retails for $69—Mother Dirt’s profits will help fund that medical work. So far, Aganovic says, “several thousands” have tried the spray and become repeat customers. 
  
 Testers at a Brooklyn event. Photographer: Dina Litovsky for Bloomberg Businessweek 
  
 Two days after the relaunch, AOBiome hosted a dinner for 60 fans in Brooklyn, N.Y., home to its largest user base. The crowd, gathered at a chic farm-to-table restaurant, includes several entrepreneurs, a lawyer, a stockbroker, and at least one young hedge fund manager who regularly sprays himself and his four young children. “I was expecting people to be a little more hippy-dippy,” says Leslie Engel, 38, a redhead who works in philanthropy and uses the mist as the finishing touch of a conventional cosmetic routine that includes deodorant, shampoo, face wash, and makeup. Not that there aren’t some oddballs in attendance. “I hate taking showers, because I’m very lazy, and I like to save water,” says Hugh Loebner, the former chief executive officer of a metal-parts manufacturer. “This could fix California’s drought problem,” he jokes. Most customers are more interested in fixing their face. “I’ve been waiting for a product like this for years,” says Dave Kliman, 49, an app developer. “It’s like having a little molecular army of guys cleaning me, little maintenance men. I’m getting cleaner just sitting here.” ||||| BOSTON (CBS) – You’ve heard of taking probiotics for a healthy gut, but what about literally spraying live bacteria on your skin? As Dr. Mallika Marshall reports, a local company thinks it’s a good idea for overall health, and plans to prove it. 
  
 “I have not taken a shower in over 12 years,” says Dave Whitlock, a chemical engineer and MIT grad who says he doesn’t miss bathing at all. “No one did clinical trials on people taking showers every day. So what’s the basis for assuming that that is a healthy practice.” 
  
 In fact, what Whitlock does believe is healthy is restoring good bacteria to our skin that our ancestors enjoyed long ago and that has slowly been stripped away by excessive cleaning. To prove his theory, he helped found AOBiome, a company based in Cambridge, MA. 
  
 “We’ve confused clean with sterile,” says Jasmina Aganovic, the General Manager of Consumer Products at AOBiome. She says as humans, we need to reconnect with our environment. “We’ve taken the dirt out of our lives. We don’t spend as much time outdoors as we used to, even little children,” she explains. 
  
 To add a little dirt back into our lives, AOBiome has created Mother Dirt, specifically the AO+ Mist containing live bacteria that is sprayed directly on the skin twice a day. It has no odor and feels like water. 
  
 “Our users are able to reduce their dependence on conventional products,” says Aganovic. “Examples include cutting out or cutting down on deodorant, cutting out or cutting down on moisturizers.” There’s a Mother Dirt shampoo and cleanser that don’t contain bacteria but Aganovic says won’t interfere with it either. 
  
 And while Whitlock still doesn’t shower, he does use Mother Dirt every day and hopes the rest of the world will join him. “I would like a billion people a day to use this,” he says. 
  
 While AOBiome believes in the health benefits of these live bacteria, they’re not making any scientific claims right now but will soon begin clinical trials on inflammatory skin conditions, like acne. 
  
 The Mother Dirt products became available in July of this year. For more information, go to www.motherdirt.com ||||| For most of my life, if I’ve thought at all about the bacteria living on my skin, it has been while trying to scrub them away. But recently I spent four weeks rubbing them in. I was Subject 26 in testing a living bacterial skin tonic, developed by AOBiome, a biotech start-up in Cambridge, Mass. The tonic looks, feels and tastes like water, but each spray bottle of AO+ Refreshing Cosmetic Mist contains billions of cultivated Nitrosomonas eutropha, an ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) that is most commonly found in dirt and untreated water. AOBiome scientists hypothesize that it once lived happily on us too — before we started washing it away with soap and shampoo — acting as a built-in cleanser, deodorant, anti-inflammatory and immune booster by feeding on the ammonia in our sweat and converting it into nitrite and nitric oxide. 
  
 In the conference room of the cramped offices that the four-person AOBiome team rents at a start-up incubator, Spiros Jamas, the chief executive, handed me a chilled bottle of the solution from the refrigerator. “These are AOB,” he said. “They’re very innocuous.” Because the N. eutropha are alive, he said, they would need to be kept cold to remain stable. I would be required to mist my face, scalp and body with bacteria twice a day. I would be swabbed every week at a lab, and the samples would be analyzed to detect changes in my invisible microbial community. 
  
 In the last few years, the microbiome (sometimes referred to as “the second genome”) has become a focus for the health conscious and for scientists alike. Studies like the Human Microbiome Project, a national enterprise to sequence bacterial DNA taken from 242 healthy Americans, have tagged 19 of our phyla (groupings of bacteria), each with thousands of distinct species. As Michael Pollan wrote in this magazine last year: “As a civilization, we’ve just spent the better part of a century doing our unwitting best to wreck the human-associated microbiota. . . . Whether any cures emerge from the exploration of the second genome, the implications of what has already been learned — for our sense of self, for our definition of health and for our attitude toward bacteria in general — are difficult to overstate.” |||||