The man suspected of killing a mother and her oldest daughter in order to kidnap two other young girls has been rushed to the top of the FBI's list of its Top Ten Most Wanted fugitives. 
  
 Adam Mayes is believed to be armed and on the run from authorities with two of the girls he allegedly kidnapped on April 27. 
  
 "We will hunt down Adam Mayes and rescue those two little girls," said FBI Special Agent Aaron Ford at a press conference today. 
  
 Mayes, 35, and his wife, Teresa, 31, are both charged with first degree murder and especially aggravated kidnapping. Adam Mayes has also been charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, a federal crime which gave the FBI jurisdiction over the case. 
  
 He takes the place on the FBI's infamous wanted list of Boston mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger who was captured last year. 
  
 "We keenly and firmly believe that Adam Mayes is out there somewhere with those two young children and it's going to be up to the public to help us bring these children back home and place him in custody where he needs to be," said Sheriff Tommy Wilhite of Union County, Miss., where Mayes lives. 
  
 When asked if they had established a motive for the kidnapping, Ford said, "We have no indication now as to motive." 
  
 Adam and Teresa Mayes are charged with killing JoAnn Bain and her 14-year-old daughter, Adrienne, in the Bain's Tennessee home in order to kidnap the two younger girls, according to affidavits filed in the murder charges. Teresa Mayes told police she witnessed Adam kill JoAnn Bain in the garage of the Bain's home, and then kill Adrienne Bain in the home itself. 
  
 Adam and Teresa Mayes then took the dead bodies and two young girls to the Mayes' home in Mississippi, where Adam Mayes allegedly buried the two bodies, the documents state. 
  
 "Teresa Mayes stated that Adam Mayes intended to take Alexandria Bain and Kyliyah Bain from their home in Hardeman County," the affidavits state. "Both murders were directly part of the kidnapping of Alexandria Bain and Kyliyah Bain." 
  
 The bodies of mother and daughter were found ealier this week in the backyard of the home Mayes shares Teresa and his mother and father. 
  
 Police believe the two youngest daughters are still in Mayes' custody and may be in extreme danger. The FBI has warned that Mayes may have changed his appearance and the appearances of the two girls since they were last seen. 
  
 Police located a trailer that Mayes had rented from Union County, Miss., that contained items belonging to the two girls, the documents state. 
  
 Police arrested Teresa Mayes and Mary Mayes, Adam's mother, on Tuesday in connection with the kidnapping. 
  
 Mary Mayes is charged with conspiracy to commit especially aggravated kidnapping. Both Mary and Teresa Mayes confessed to police that Teresa helped transport the children and bodies from Mississippi and that they both witnessed Adam Mayes digging the holes in the Mayes' backyard, according to the arrest documents. 
  
 Mayes was last seen on April 30, in surveillance video from a grocery market in Guntown, Miss., where he lives. Police have also found a trailer Mayes rented from Guntown that contained personal items belonging to the two young girls. 
  
 Teresa Mayes' sister, Bobbi Booth, said her sister knew about the killings, but may have been too scared to call the police, according to the Associated Press. 
  
 Authorities are offering a $71,000 reward for information leading to Adam Mayes' whereabouts and arrest, including $6,000 from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, $50,000 from the FBI and U.S. Marshals Service, and $15,000 from the Tennessee Governor's office. 
  
 The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is offering a $6,000 reward for information leading to Adam Mayes' whereabouts and arrest, and the FBI and U.S. Marshals Service are offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the location of the missing victims and the arrest of Mayes. ||||| Murder charges were filed Wednesday against the fugitive suspected of killing a Tennessee woman and her teenage daughter and fleeing with her two younger girls. 
  
 This combination of two undated photos provided by the Hardeman County, Tenn. Sheriff’s Office on Tuesday, May 8, 2012 shows Mary Francis Mayes, left, mother of Adam Mayes, and Teresa Mayes, Adam Mayes'... (Associated Press) 
  
 Six-year-old Eli Downen, left, and 5-year-old Brayden Waller write notes to a kidnapped Tennessee mother and her three daughters before a prayer vigil on Tuesday, May 8, 2012 in Bolivar, Tenn. The mother,... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - This combo image made of undated photos provided by the Mississippi Department of Public Safety shows Jo Ann Bain, left, and her 14-year-old daughter, Adrienne. The bodies of the two women were... (Associated Press) 
  
 Mary Francis Mayes, mother of Adam Mayes, is seen in an undated photo provided by the Hardeman County, Tenn., Sheriff’s Office. Mary Mayes and Teresa Mayes, Adam Mayes' wife, were arrested and charged... (Associated Press) 
  
 FBI agents get ready to resume their search for a man accused of abducting a Tennessee mother and her three daughters on Tuesday, May 8, 2012 in Guntown, Miss. Authorities on Tuesday said they were searching... (Associated Press) 
  
 This undated photo provided by the Hardeman County (Miss.) Sheriff's Department shows Adam Mayes. Warrants for kidnapping are being issued for Mayes, who is considered "armed and extremely dangerous,"... (Associated Press) 
  
 Teresa Mayes, wife of Adam Mayes, is seen in an undated photo provided by the Hardeman County, Tenn., Sheriff’s Office. Teresa Mayes and Mary Mayes, mother of Adam Mayes, were arrested and charged Tuesday,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Two first-degree murder counts against 35-year-old Adam Mayes, who has been sought for more than a week, were announced Wednesday. His wife, Teresa Mayes, also was charged. 
  
 An affidavit filed in Bolivar, Tenn., says Teresa Mayes of Guntown, Miss., told authorities she was there April 27 when Adam Mayes, killed Jo Ann Bain and her 14-year-old daughter, Adrienne, in a garage at their Whiteville, Tenn., home. 
  
 Teresa Mayes told officials the motive was to kidnap Bain's two younger daughters, 12-year-old Alexandria and 8-year-old Kyliyah. 
  
 A call seeking comment from Teresa Mayes' attorney wasn't immediately returned. 
  
 The wife was charged a day earlier with especially aggravated kidnapping. She said she drove her husband, the girls and the two bodies from southwest Tennessee to Guntown and saw him dig a hole in the yard. 
  
 The bodies of Jo Ann and Alexandria Bain were found buried at that property a week later. 
  
 An intense manhunt continues for Adam Mayes and the two girls. |||||