The closure of the maternity ward in Sollefteå, northern Sweden, at the end of January means that expectant mothers in the area will soon have to travel to Örnsköldsvik or Sundsvall, both of which are around a hundred kilometres away. 
  
 In order to try and help pregnant women feel more secure, two midwives at the ward which is closing have launched a course on what to do if the process of childbirth begins during a long car journey. 
  
 “If you think that it will be something between 120 and 200 kilometres to the nearest maternity ward, and it’s winter, it’s dark, there’s a bad mobile signal, anything can happen on the way. Car accidents, the car could break down, you maybe drive off the road. You have to be ready, and the worst could happen even if it is very, very uncommon,” course leader and midwife Stina Näslund told The Local. 
  
 The course will cover the practicalities of making a long journey with someone who is close to giving birth, and even what to do if labour begins. 
  
 “Keep in mind that a quick delivery may be needed for a first time mother. That’s a challenge. Our municipality is huge,” Näslund explained. 
  
 The midwife said that the reaction has been surprisingly large since the course was announced on Friday afternoon, with people contacting via e-mail and telephone, and both domestic and international media asking about it. 
  
 “We have always had a maternity ward in Sollefteå, so this it will be new for the area when the ward closes in two weeks. It’s an economic question: they think they will save millions of kronor by closing the ward. For me, personally, it feels like they are cutting the lifeblood of a society,” Näslund noted. 
  
 Sweden’s stretched natal care has been a high-profile subject in recent years following stories related to the scarcity of beds at hospitals and women being turned away due to a lack of space. 
  
 In December, a pregnant woman died in the emergency room of a hospital after spending the night there because there were no free beds in the neurology ward. 
  
 And in July, a baby died after a clinic in southern Sweden sent a heavily pregnant woman home despite showing signs of pre-eclampsia, due to a lack of space. ||||| Image copyright Christopher Furlong/Getty Images Image caption The midwives want to prepare women who may go into labour en route to the hospital 
  
 Expectant parents in a town in Sweden are being offered training on how to deliver a baby in a car after the local maternity ward was earmarked for closure. 
  
 Two midwives at the hospital in Solleftea came up with the idea in order to help mums- and dads-to-be feel safer during the long journey to the nearest maternity unit, The Local reports. From February, that will be in either Ornskoldsvik or Sundsvall - both more than 100km (62 miles) away. 
  
 Stina Naslund, who is leading the course, says that she knows many people are anxious about travelling such a long distance through rural areas, particularly in dark winter conditions. 
  
 Ms Naslund tells The Local that she wants to prepare people for what could happen. "Car accidents, the car could break down, you maybe drive off the road. You have to be ready, and the worst could happen even if it is very, very uncommon," she says. The training will include what to do if the baby's arrival is imminent, The Local notes. 
  
 About 20,000 people live in Solleftea municipality, half of them in the town itself. The decision to cut local maternity services was part of a cost-cutting measure passed in October, Expressen reports. Mia Ahlberg, head of the Swedish Midwives Association, supports the training but says it's "tragic" that it is needed because health services are being closed in small communities. 
  
 Next story: Samoa rejects criticism of used-car law 
  
 Use #NewsfromElsewhere to stay up-to-date with our reports via Twitter. |||||