Healthy people given the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram were willing to pay almost twice as much to prevent harm to themselves or others than those given placebo drugs 
  
 Healthy people given the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram were willing to pay almost twice as much to prevent harm to themselves or others than those given placebo drugs in a moral decision-making experiment at UCL. In contrast, the dopamine-boosting Parkinson's drug levodopa made healthy people more selfish, eliminating an altruistic tendency to prefer harming themselves over others. The study was a double-blind randomised controlled trial and the results are published in Current Biology. 
  
 The research provides insight into the neural basis of clinical disorders characterized by a lack of concern for others, such as psychopathy. Serotonin and dopamine levels have both been linked to aggressive and antisocial behavior, and this study helps explain why. 
  
 "Our findings have implications for potential lines of treatment for antisocial behavior, as they help us to understand how serotonin and dopamine affect people's willingness to harm others for personal gain," says lead author Dr Molly Crockett, who conducted the study at UCL and is now at Oxford University. "We have shown that commonly-prescribed psychiatric drugs influence moral decisions in healthy people, raising important ethical questions about the use of such drugs. 
  
 "It is important to stress, however, that these drugs may have different effects in psychiatric patients compared to healthy people. More research is needed to determine whether these drugs affect moral decisions in people who take them for medical reasons." 
  
 The study, conducted by researchers from UCL and Oxford University and funded by the Wellcome Trust, compared how much pain people were willing to anonymously inflict on themselves or strangers in exchange for money. A total of 175 healthy adults took part, 89 randomised to receive citalopram or placebo and 86 randomised to receive levodopa or placebo. 
  
 Participants were randomly assigned to the roles of decider and receiver and anonymously paired up such that each decider did not know who the receiver was and vice-versa. All participants were given mildly painful electric shocks matched to their pain threshold so that the intensity was not intolerable. Deciders were explicitly told that shocks to receivers would be at the receiver's own pain threshold. 
  
 Deciders went into a room alone with a computer terminal, and each took part in 170 trials. For each trial, they had to choose between different amounts of money for different numbers of shocks, up to a maximum 20 shocks and £20 per trial. For example, they might be offered a choice of 7 shocks for £10 or 10 shocks for £15. Half of the decisions related to shocks for themselves and half to shocks for the receiver, but in all cases the deciders would get the money. 
  
 At the end of the session, one of the chosen trial results would be implemented so that the decider or receiver received the shocks and the decider received the profits. As such, their decisions had real consequences. Deciders knew that their decisions would be kept secret so that fear of judgment or retaliation would not skew the results. 
  
 A similar experiment conducted by the same team previously showed that people disliked harming others more than harming themselves, a behaviour known as 'hyper-altruism'.* This behaviour was seen again in this study, with most people more willing to harm themselves than others for profit. 
  
 On average, people given a placebo were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent harm to others. Those on citalopram were far more harm-averse, willing to pay an average 60p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 73p per shock to prevent harm to others. Over the course of the experiment, this meant that people on citalopram delivered an average 30 fewer shocks to themselves and 35 fewer shocks to others than those on placebo. 
  
 People given levodopa, however, were not willing to pay any more to prevent shocks to others than to prevent shocks to themselves. On average, they were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves or others. This meant that they delivered on average 10 more shocks to others during the experiment than the placebo group. They were also less hesitant to deliver shocks to others, making the decision faster than those on placebo. 
  
 ### ||||| Trial showed healthy people given a Parkinson’s drug became more selfish, while people given a serotonin-boosting drug were more protective of others 
  
 Common drugs for depression and Parkinson’s can sway people’s moral judgments about harming others, according to research that raises ethical questions about the use of the drugs. 
  
 The study found that when healthy people were given a one-off dose of a serotonin-boosting drug widely used to treat depression they became more protective of others, paying almost twice as much to prevent them receiving an electric shock in a laboratory experiment. They also became more reluctant to expose themselves to pain. 
  
 Serotonin map of brain could lead to better targeted antidepressants Read more 
  
 The scientists also found that the dopamine-enhancing Parkinson’s drug, levodopa, made healthy people more selfish, wiping out the normal tendency to prefer to receive an electric shock themselves, while sparing those around them. 
  
 Molly Crockett, a psychologist at the University of Oxford who led the work, said the finding that a single exposure to the drugs had such a noticeable impact on behaviour challenged the idea that we have stable moral values. 
  
 “Patients [taking these drugs] are tracked in terms of how their symptoms improve, but not necessarily in terms of how their behaviour changes,” she said. “In the treatment of Parkinson’s, some patients go on to develop compulsive gambling and compulsive sexual behaviour. The drugs have consequences that reach out into the world beyond the patient.” 
  
 She added that it was unclear whether the effects seen in the study would be replicated in patients. An alternative possibility is that the drugs could bring the behaviour of patients “back to baseline” by stabilising their psychological state. 
  
 “The central message is we need to have more research into how these drugs affect behaviour, both in healthy people and in people taking them for disorders,” she said. 
  
 In the study, published in the journal Current Biology, 175 participants took part, with 89 assigned to receive the anti-depressant citalopram or a placebo and 86 given either levodopa or a placebo. 
  
 The participants were also randomly designated as “deciders” or “receivers” and anonymously paired up. All participants were given mildly painful electric shocks matched to their pain threshold so that the intensity was not intolerable. Deciders were told that shocks to receivers would be at the receiver’s own pain threshold. 
  
 Urgent call for new drugs to treat causes of Parkinson’s Read more 
  
 Deciders went into a room alone with a computer terminal, and each took part in around 170 trials. For each trial, they had to choose between different amounts of money for different numbers of shocks, up to a maximum of 20 shocks and £20 per trial. For example, they might be offered a choice of 7 shocks for £10 or 10 shocks for £15. Half of the decisions made in the trials related to shocks for themselves and half to shocks for the receiver, but regardless of who received the shocks, the deciders would get the money. 
  
 On average, people given a placebo were prepared to pay around 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent harm to others. Those on citalopram, the seratonin-based drug, were far more harm-averse, willing to pay an average 60p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 73p per shock to prevent harm to others. Overall, they delivered around 30 fewer shocks to themselves and 35 fewer shocks to others than those on placebo. 
  
 People given levodopa, however, were not willing to pay any more to prevent shocks to others than to prevent shocks to themselves. On average, they were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves or others, meaning they delivered on average 10 more shocks to others during the experiment than the placebo group. 
  
 “The dopamine drug made people more selfish,” said Crockett. “Most people show this pattern where they think it’s worse to harm other people than to harm oneself. That’s abolished by the drug.” 
  
 The researchers suggest that in future it may be possible to give people a simple test to assess whether their decision-making behaviour has been radically altered by a drug, as well as asking them about whether their mood and symptoms have improved. 
  
 “We’re not transforming someone from a healthy person into a criminal or anything like that,” Crockett said. “But in aggregate we make decisions multiple times a day and they can shape our lives.” ||||| Your moral compass can be influenced more than you think. A new study published in Current Biology shows that using two common drugs, an antidepressant and a treatment for Parkinson’s disease, can help sway moral decisions. 
  
 The researchers randomly designated the subjects as “deciders” or “receivers,” while all the participants were given an electric shock based on their own individual pain thresholds. Deciders were to go into rooms by themselves and take part in 170 trials. Within each trial, the subject could choose from different amounts of money for a certain amount of shocks, up to 20 shocks and 20p (pence) per trial. By the end of the experiment, either the subject received an electric shock or the decision-maker got shocked, with the decision-maker getting paid either way. 
  
 The experiment randomly selects half of the group to receive the serotonin-enhancing antidepressant citalopram while the other group received levodopa, a dopamine-enhancer. Levodopa is commonly used to treat Parkinson’s disease. Each of the groups that received medication also were compared against groups who were receiving a placebo. The researchers were surprised by the potential of the findings. The goal of the experiment was to create a real life decision-making process with real consequences in order to see how these specific drugs affect behavior. 
  
 “The central message is we need to have more research into how these drugs affect behavior, both in healthy people and in people taking them for disorders,” Molly Crockett, the lead author of the research and neuroscientist at the University of Oxford told The Guardian. 
  
 In a previous experiment that was conducted by the same team, the results showed that people disliked harming others more than harming themselves. This is behavior referred to as “hyper-altruism,” a term that another study from April of 2015 states is a trait that most people have. 
  
 That was on display for this study as well. On average, the people given a placebo were prepared to pay 35p per shock to prevent harm to themselves and 44p per shock to prevent it in others. Participants who were given the citalopram were willing to pay an average of 73p per shock to prevent harm to others. Conversely, those who were given the drug levodopa were prepared to pay approximately 35p per shock to prevent harm to others or themselves, meaning that they delivered an average of 10 more shocks to others during the experiment. This gives the impression that the participants who took the drug levodopa were on average more selfish than the participants who took citalopram. 
  
 What the study also seems to indicate is that while on average most people wouldn’t inflict harm on others, with the common drug citalopram, participants were more empathetic toward other people’s pain. Lest anyone think that this study can have negative ramifications, as though serotonin-enhancing medications would begin to be doled out to everybody to “force” them to be more empathetic, this study actually might be groundbreaking for the ways in which we can treat people with mood or behavioral disorders. 
  
 “Our findings have implications for potential lines of treatment for antisocial behavior, as they help us to understand how serotonin and dopamine affect people’s willingness to harm others for personal gain. We have shown that commonly-prescribed psychiatric drugs influence moral decisions in healthy people, raising important ethical questions about the use of such drugs,” Crockett said in a statement. 
  
 Source: Crockett M, Siegel J, Kurth-Nelson Z, et al. Dissociable Effects of Seratonin and Dopamine on the Valuation of Harm in Moral Decision Making. Current Biology. 2015. |||||