After a goalless first half Coventry looked to be heading to a first win in 15 league matches thanks to Jodi Jones' 71st-minute strike.
But in the third minute of injury time, Robinson pounced on a loose ball in the box to dash the visitors' hopes and ensure Wimbledon remain unbeaten at home in seven league games.
On a difficult Kingsmeadow pitch the game plan for both sides was get it forward and pump balls into the box.
It brought enough chances for both teams, with Coventry's George Thomas and the Dons' Tom Soares guilty of missing opportunities.
But substitute Jones showed them how it was done with 20 minutes left with a fine finish.
However, after good work from Andy Barchan down the left, Robinson fired home the cutback from the touchline to send Kingsmeadow into raptures.
Report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, AFC Wimbledon 1, Coventry City 1.
Second Half ends, AFC Wimbledon 1, Coventry City 1.
Goal!  AFC Wimbledon 1, Coventry City 1. Paul Robinson (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
Attempt blocked. Tyrone Barnett (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Foul by Paul Robinson (AFC Wimbledon).
Yakubu (Coventry City) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by George Oakley (AFC Wimbledon).
Nathan Clarke (Coventry City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt blocked. Callum Reilly (Coventry City) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.
Corner,  Coventry City. Conceded by Andy Barcham.
Foul by George Oakley (AFC Wimbledon).
Jodi Jones (Coventry City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by George Oakley (AFC Wimbledon).
Kevin Foley (Coventry City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Corner,  Coventry City. Conceded by Sean Kelly.
Tom Soares (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Callum Reilly (Coventry City).
Foul by George Oakley (AFC Wimbledon).
Nathan Clarke (Coventry City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, AFC Wimbledon. George Oakley replaces Dominic Poleon.
Substitution, AFC Wimbledon. Tyrone Barnett replaces Lyle Taylor.
Goal!  AFC Wimbledon 0, Coventry City 1. Jodi Jones (Coventry City) left footed shot from the right side of the box to the bottom left corner.
Attempt saved. Callum Reilly (Coventry City) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Attempt saved. Lyle Taylor (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Tom Soares (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Kwame Thomas (Coventry City).
Substitution, Coventry City. Jodi Jones replaces George Thomas.
Andy Rose (Coventry City) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Lyle Taylor (AFC Wimbledon).
Corner,  AFC Wimbledon. Conceded by Dion Kelly-Evans.
Attempt blocked. Dominic Poleon (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Paul Robinson (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Callum Reilly (Coventry City).
Foul by Andy Barcham (AFC Wimbledon).
George Thomas (Coventry City) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Substitution, Coventry City. Yakubu replaces Marcus Tudgay.
Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (AFC Wimbledon) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
David Fitzpatrick (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andy Rose (Coventry City).
Delay in match Kwame Thomas (Coventry City) because of an injury.