Within the first few minutes of the sibling dramedy “The Skeleton Twins,” there’s a phone call from a hospital informing a woman (Kristen Wiig) that her brother (Bill Hader) has just tried to slit his wrists. The news is so upsetting to her that it derails her own plans to swallow a handful of sleeping pills. 
  
 That’s your first sign that this isn’t just another skit by the “Saturday Night Live” veterans. Though there are moments of silliness that remind you of the goofy, quicksilver brilliance of these former sketch-comedy whiz kids, the movie is a serious and surprisingly affecting meditation on family and the legacy of self- destruction. 
  
 Why have Milo (Hader) and Maggie (Wiig) tried to kill themselves on this same night, a continent apart? (He’s in Los Angeles, she’s in Nyack, N.Y.) It isn’t just because their father did himself in when they were young. They also share a kind of cosmic connection that only close siblings can. 
  
 “The Skeleton Twins” — which takes its title from a pair of his-and-hers Day of the Dead toys that Milo and Maggie played with when they were kids — is a poetic evocation of a shared morbidity that spans time and space. Not just a morbidity, but an instinct to save each other, even when — maybe especially when — the other’s darkest secrets have made him or her unreachable. 
  
 That bond is illuminated on screen by the real-life friendship of the lead actors, who bring an at-times frighteningly believable brother-sister dynamic to the sharply told tale (written by Mark Heyman and director Craig Johnson). Their relationship veers from painfully awkward tension to moments of giddily intense emotional intimacy. 
  
 Siblings Milo (Bill Hader) and Maggie (Kristen Wiig) reunite for the first time in a decade after Milo’s suicide attempt in “The Skeleton Twins.” (Roadside Attractions) 
  
 When the film opens, Milo, a gay failed actor, and Maggie, a married dental hygienist, haven’t spoken in 10 years. After Milo gets out of the hospital, Maggie’s invitation to her brother to temporarily move in with her and her husband, Lance (Luke Wilson), an amiable doofus who calls people “amigo,” seems at first like a terrible idea. Milo is a caustically funny club-crawling negaholic, while Maggie and Lance lead quiet suburban lives of streaming Netflix comedies and commuting. 
  
 At the same time, there are moments when their differences melt away, as when Milo leads Maggie in a delightfully silly duet of lip-syncing to Starship’s cheese-tastic 1987 power ballad “ Nothing’s Gonna Stop Us Now.” 
  
 But the movie is more than a showcase for Wiig and Hader’s chemistry. Over the course of the tale, metaphorical skeletons, in the form of old relationships, come dancing out of both Maggie and Milo’s closets. Though these ghosts partly explain — and partly deepen the mystery of — the characters’ self-destructive impulses, they are essentially distractions. The central focus of the film remains Milo and Maggie’s journey, even when the wakes of other, more heavily freighted vessels swerve dangerously across their path, threatening to capsize the siblings’ little lifeboat. 
  
 “The Skeleton Twins” is a small, closely observed chamber piece. That doesn’t mean it’s trivial. It’s an ample vessel for Wiig and Hader’s talents and tastes, which tend more toward the odd but telling detail than to outsize farce. 
  
 The actors have an obvious rapport. It’s deep enough to evoke the ties, entanglements and bloodletting of a real kinship. But Wiig and Hader’s instincts as entertainers are keen enough to know when to stop cutting. 
  
 The humor and the poignancy of “The Skeleton Twins” come not from what Maggie and Milo have suffered — or inflicted on each other — but what they have together survived. 
  
 ★ ★ ★ ½ 
  
 R. At area theaters. Contains obscenity, sex, drug use, sexual dialogue and mature thematic material. 92 minutes. ||||| In The Skeleton Twins, Wiig and Hader Brave Despair They Live! 
  
 Surprisingly moving for a film assembled from such familiar scenes, Craig Johnson's The Skeleton Twins mushes together queasy/quirky indie family drama with the beats of a romantic comedy. You know the outline just from eyeballing the poster: Kristen Wiig's Maggie and Bill Hader's Milo find their way toward loving each other after a wary start. Then, not long after they've found each other, and after Johnson has stopped positioning them on the far opposite sides of the frame, and after we've had the chance to relish their giddy togetherness, backstory must rip them apart. 
  
 They negotiate their moods, their pride, and their past in what feels like real time. 
  
 See also: Our interview with Bill Hader 
  
 What's singular here isn't that the stars are playing brother and sister, or that they stir such sublime and anxious joy from each other. It's that the real love story isn't even between the damaged-but-lovable characters. It's between two profoundly depressed people and life itself. 
  
 Most of the laughs come from well-observed human behavior: Milo moves into the home of his estranged sister Maggie, where he studies the cracks in her marriage to a nice guy (Luke Wilson) neither respects. The best scenes come as the siblings discover how to be around each other — and get close to discovering how to be, period. Getting high on nitrous oxide sets the siblings into confessions and fart-dancing on the floor of a dentist's office, and the scene is long and nourishing, stirring that feeling of raw, unguarded safety you might share with the people who have known you best and longest. 
  
 Even the obligatory out-of-nowhere musical number has the power to seize viewers' guts. To haul Maggie out of the foulest of moods, Milo lip-syncs to the only god-awful '80s synth-pop hit that hasn't yet been mined for a nostalgic movie moment. (But it was in Mannequin.) Director Johnson and his cast hit a chord of feeling more complex than those on the soundtrack. Milo's funny as he fake-sings, but also annoying, and when the chorus hits, Maggie — furious, unwilling to crack — refuses to join him. Johnson lets the full song play out, and we witness the characters negotiate their moods, their pride, their present, and their past in what feels like real time. 
  
 Not everything is so shrewdly judged. Hader's Milo is gay, and the character is dramatic and performative, but I still doubt he would bust into Maggie's bedroom — where she's sleeping with the husband who just met Milo a day or so before — and carp drunkenly about his failure to find "cock" in his hometown bar. (Also dispiriting: Milo, given a job clearing brush at a dam, chirps, "Do I get a sexy outfit?") 
  
 Still, The Skeleton Twins confirms the good sense of Kristen Wiig. Rather than go bigger and bigger in sequels and studio comedies, she goes deeper into character. Her Maggie holds her face blank, not trusting the world to know anything of her except her occasional rages. Tenderly, exhibiting a rare understanding of prickly nervousness, Wiig reveals the uncertain soul trembling beneath the impassive mask. Skeleton Twins isn't perfect, but it cuts to the bone. ||||| One song kept playing through my mind as I watched "The Skeleton Twins," an introspective indie drama starring the very exciting post-"Saturday Night Live" Kristen Wiig and Bill Hader as siblings damaged by their father's death. 
  
 "Suicide Is Painless," the Johnny Mandel classic that was "MASH's" indelible and ironic musical anchor, is very much the sensibility that director Craig Johnson confers on his film — emotionally authentic, atypical in the way it looks at suicide and its ripple effects. 
  
 "It brings on many changes ... ." 
  
 Deftly weaving humor and sweetness in with the pathos, Johnson and Mark Heyman's screenplay won the coveted Waldo Salt screenwriting award at the Sundance Film Festival in January. 
  
 But it is what Hader and Wiig do with the words that make this one of the better movies to come along this year. The pair, who specialized in over-the-top nonsense on "SNL," till the terrifying terrain of adults who lost their father to suicide when they were young with such eloquent grace that it speaks volumes about the depth of their talent. 
  
 It would be a loss if comedy were to lose them entirely, and from the look of their future commitments there is nothing to fear, but "The Skeleton Twins" makes you glad they're taking on life's weightier issues too. 
  
 For Johnson, it's an impressive step up from his first feature, "True Adolescents" (2009), which caught the filmmaker, as well as the movie's main character, played by Mark Duplass, still in the midst of finding himself. 
  
 "Skeleton Twins" is all grown up, though Maggie (Wiig) and Milo (Hader) are definitely cases of arrested development, their emotional growth stunted by Dad's death in vastly different ways. 
  
 Roadside Attractions Bill Hader, left, and Kristen Wiig in "The Skeleton Twins." Bill Hader, left, and Kristen Wiig in "The Skeleton Twins." (Roadside Attractions) 
  
 As the film opens, they are both contemplating their own methods of acting out that lethal legacy. It's a provocative way to establish the point that the twins have been floundering in life for a long time. Milo comes closer to succeeding at ending it all. His inability to cope with his downward spiral as a failing actor in Los Angeles puts him in the hospital. The call from the nurse means the handful of pills Maggie has will go back in the bottle for now. 
  
 The crisis serves to reconnect them after a decades-long estrangement. 
  
 Maggie's invitation for Milo to come live with her for a while sets in motion the film's examination of the complexities of siblings' affection for and disaffection with each other. This is as central to the film as the idea of suicide. Wiig's ability to let sorrow settle into her eyes and, like a tear, just hang there, gets a workout here. Hader's gift of mood-shifting, flipping through emotions like pages of a book he barely finds interesting, carries one scene after another. 
  
 "Twins" is serious about its subject. Yet Hader's truly inspired lip-sync of Starship's "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now" is funny without being frivolous. The twins grew up in the 1980s, and the music from that time frames their lives. 
  
 The fact that Maggie still lives in their hometown, somewhere in the bucolic Hudson Valley, is not accidental either, and wonderfully shot by director of photography Reed Morano, by the way. The subtext is that they must untangle the past before they can move forward. 
  
 Milo is gay, but like everything else about the film, the way it factors in is unexpected. There are flashbacks that show Milo and Maggie playing dressup as children. The way she carefully applies lipstick on her dress-wearing brother suggests acceptance by the family wasn't among his issues. Milo's stop by the local bookshop owned by his former English teacher Rich (Ty Burrell) begins to give us the shape and source of his pain. 
  
 Maggie's married to an easygoing former jock, Lance (Luke Wilson). He's sweet, uncomplicated, thinks they're trying for kids, while the birth-control pills are hidden in a drawer and Maggie's getting in over her head with her hunky scuba-diving instructor Billy (Boyd Holbrook). 
  
 On one level, Maggie and Milo keep circling around the idea that perhaps, like their dad, it would just be easier to end it all rather than deal with the difficulties of reality. But on another level, they are as engaged in figuring out if — and how — they can repair their damaged relationship. 
  
 Twins are bound more tightly than most siblings, and time and again Johnson uses that bond to break down the idea of living versus not, loving versus not. The question is whether, like the Mandel song, Milo and Maggie can "take or leave" suicide as they please. "The Skeleton Twins" answers it beautifully. 
  
 ------------ 
  
 'The Skeleton Twins' 
  
 MPAA rating: R for language, some sexuality and drug use 
  
 Running time: 1 hour, 32 minutes 
  
 Playing: ArcLight, Hollywood and Pasadena; Landmark Theatres, West Los Angeles ||||| When estranged twins Maggie (Kristen Wiig) and Milo (Bill Hader) feel they're at the end of their ropes, an unexpected reunion forces them to confront why their lives went so wrong. As the twins reconnect, they realize the key to fixing their lives may just lie in repairing their relationship. (c) Roadside Attractions |||||