Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 / Updated By Andrew Blankstein 
  
 An elderly woman who lives in the suburban Los Angeles home made famous by TV sitcom “The Brady Bunch” scared off burglars who were ransacking the house, police said Thursday. 
  
 The resident, who is aged in her 70s, was not hurt in Wednesday night’s "hot prowl" break-in at the property in Studio City. 
  
 The stars of "The Brady Bunch" are pictured in 1972. Top row (left to right): Maureen McCormick, Florence Henderson, Barry Williams, Christopher Knight. Bottom row: Eve Plumb, Mike Lookinland, Robert Reed and Susan Olsen. Hulton Archive / Getty Images 
  
 The suspects fled but left behind physical evidence, police sources told NBC News. 
  
 Police said the suspects tried to get in through windows before smashing a downstairs sliding glass door. 
  
 They ransacked the den and then moved upstairs, smashing the victim's bedroom door. 
  
 The woman, who was in bed, awoke and turned on a light, leading the culprits to flee, police said. 
  
 It was not immediately clear if any property was taken. 
  
 The home was used for exterior shots of the residence of Mike and Carol Brady and their six children. "The Brady Bunch" aired on ABC from 1969 to 1974. 
  
 The property frequently attracts fans of the show and is now also a stop for "Pokemon Go" players, according to the Los Angeles Daily News. 
  
 “There are always lookie-loos here,” a neighbor told the newspaper. “Pokémon will just bring more people who don’t live in here.” ||||| Iconic Brady Bunch House in California Ransacked by Burglars: Police 
  
 ABC Photo Archives / Getty 
  
 The shag carpets and the orange countertops are long gone, but the iconic California house made famous on the hit 1970s sitcom, The Brady Bunch remains – and was the target of a recent break-in, police confirm to PEOPLE.On Wednesday at 10:28 p.m., Los Angeles Police Department officers responded to a call of a break-in at a home in Studio City, California, which was used for exterior shots for the classic sitcom, which ran on ABC from 1969 to 1974.Unknown intruders allegedly smashed the glass of a rear sliding door to gain entry, police say, adding that they ransacked the main level of the home before heading upstairs. It was unclear if anything had been stolen and no arrests have been made, police say.The pair allegedly fled when the homeowner, an elderly woman, turned on a bedroom light, say police. "She didn't hear anything until they were inside," says a police spokesman. The woman was not harmed.The house has become a frequent tourist stop for fans of the show, which became wildly popular after it began running in syndication in 1975.The show revolves around architect Mike Brady, his wife, Carol, the three boys and three girls they each brought to the marriage – and their beloved housekeeper, Alice.The show's creator, Sherwood Schwartz, told the Los Angeles Times that he chose the house to use for exterior shots because "we didn’t want it to be too affluent, we didn’t want it to be too blue-collar. We wanted it to look like it would fit a place an architect would live."The interior of the Dilling Street home looks nothing like the house on the show, which was created on a set at Paramount Studios. |||||