Fulham had the better of the first half with Aboubakar Kamara's going close and Ibrahima Cisse striking the base of the post with a drive from 25 yards.
David Button saved one-on-one from Chris Wood before Leeds' Felix Wiedwald made a similar stop from Sone Aluko.
Kalvin Phillips and Wood missed late chances for Leeds as the sides played out a fifth successive league draw.
Leeds and Fulham had drawn their previous four league games by a 1-1 scoreline, but Wood and Aluko both spurned great chances for their sides in a stalemate.
The visitors dominated the opening stages, but could not beat Rob Green's replacement Wiedwald in goal as Stefan Johansen, Kamara and Cisse were all off target.
Leeds responded after the break but Phillips fired wide and Wood could not get on the end of a late Stuart Dallas cross, as Thomas Christiansen's side drew a blank for the second time in four days.
Leeds boss Thomas Christiansen:
"It's another clean sheet and I believe the team played a very good game.
"We have to recognise that we played against one of the best teams in this league. They started very well and we were not fast enough.
"At the end of the first half we controlled the game a bit more and in the second we deserved more.
"We need to be a bit more dangerous up front but at the end I'm satisfied with that result."
Fulham boss Slavisa Jokanovic:
"We showed different faces.
"We opened the game very well and created chances but they pressed us better at the start of the second half and the result was fair at the end.
"It's positive that we haven't lost any games but it's a bad thing we haven't won any games in the start of the season."
Match ends, Leeds United 0, Fulham 0.
Second Half ends, Leeds United 0, Fulham 0.
Attempt missed. Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Ibrahima Cissé.
Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Pontus Jansson (Leeds United).
Attempt missed. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Pablo Hernández with a cross following a corner.
Corner,  Leeds United. Conceded by Tim Ream.
Attempt missed. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) left footed shot from the left side of the box misses to the right.
Attempt blocked. Neeskens Kebano (Fulham) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Oliver Norwood with a through ball.
Sone Aluko (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Eunan O'Kane (Leeds United).
Vurnon Anita (Leeds United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Sone Aluko (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Vurnon Anita (Leeds United).
Substitution, Leeds United. Stuart Dallas replaces Samuel Sáiz.
Offside, Fulham. Stefan Johansen tries a through ball, but Sone Aluko is caught offside.
Corner,  Fulham. Conceded by Felix Wiedwald.
Attempt saved. Sone Aluko (Fulham) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Stefan Johansen with a through ball.
Substitution, Fulham. Oliver Norwood replaces Aboubakar Kamara.
Attempt missed. Samuel Sáiz (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Kalvin Phillips.
Attempt blocked. Stefan Johansen (Fulham) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Sone Aluko.
Foul by Aboubakar Kamara (Fulham).
Pontus Jansson (Leeds United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Offside, Leeds United. Pontus Jansson tries a through ball, but Pablo Hernández is caught offside.
Attempt missed. Sone Aluko (Fulham) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Kevin McDonald.
Attempt blocked. Pablo Hernández (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Ryan Fredericks (Fulham).
Samuel Sáiz (Leeds United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Stefan Johansen (Fulham) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United).
Substitution, Leeds United. Kemar Roofe replaces Ezgjan Alioski.
Attempt missed. Luke Ayling (Leeds United) left footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left following a set piece situation.
Foul by Stefan Johansen (Fulham).
Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Ryan Sessegnon (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ezgjan Alioski (Leeds United).
Corner,  Leeds United. Conceded by Kevin McDonald.
Attempt blocked. Kalvin Phillips (Leeds United) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Pablo Hernández.
Attempt missed. Denis Odoi (Fulham) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. Assisted by Tim Ream.