Women are better than men at empathy, and here’s the proof 
  
 WE ALL know the stereotype: women are better at empathy than men. Now Queensland scientists reckon they’ve proved it. 
  
 After pooling data from thousands of in-depth interviews with Australians, they found women were far more likely to feel their partner’s emotional pain than men. 
  
 When a negative event befalls their partner, women tend to experience an emotional effect roughly 24 per cent as large as if the event happened to themselves, they found. 
  
 For men, however, this “spillover factor” is just seven per cent. 
  
 “We looked at people who had negative shocks in their lives, such as the death of a friend, losing a job or becoming ill,” said Professor Paul Frijters of University of Queensland, who conducted the study with Dr Cindy Mervin of Griffith University. 
  
 “Men and women were almost equally affected by these things if it happened to themselves. 
  
 “It’s not that men are cold, emotionless fish, but we found they were much less affected by what happened to their partner.” 
  
 While the research points to a major gender difference surrounding empathy, Prof Frijters said he can’t give a definitive answer as to why this would be the case. 
  
 “It is possible that men are probably more affected by their own roles and image as partners, than by the actual feelings of their partner. 
  
 “But it’s not clear whether this is due to nature or nurture, we don’t know. 
  
 “I can speculate, but really we’re not going to know the answer any time soon.” 
  
 Originally published as ||||| Published 
  
 Women may long have suspected it to be the case, but large-scale research by Griffith University and the University of Queensland has found women are more empathetic toward their partners than men. 
  
 Dr Cindy Mervin from Griffith Health Institute’s Centre for Applied Health Economics and Professor Paul Frijters from the University of Queensland found that when partners were ill or experienced the death of a friend, women were noticeably affected, yet men were not significantly affected by the negative events in their partner’s life. 
  
 Female partner’s levels of empathy could be measured as comparable (24%) to the event happening directly to themselves, whereas men’s emotional lives were not linked to the experiences of their partner. 
  
 “It is not that men are unemotional or uncaring, since they are quite strongly affected by what happens to themselves, but they simply are not very emotional when it comes to the feelings of their partner,” said Dr Mervin. 
  
 “It is possible that men are probably more affected by their own roles and image as partners, than by the actual feelings of their partner,” said Professor Frijters. 
  
 “This research found there is a multiplier or spillover effect on events happening to one person from the pain or joy caused to others. Negative and positive shocks affect other people in the family and probably also in the neighbourhood,” said Dr Mervin. 
  
 The researchers used data from the Household, Income and Labour Dynamics in Australia (HILDA) study to analyse how the mental health of individuals changed when something happened to their partner. HILDA is a national study of over 20,000 people across Australia. 
  
 “The study also found parents were more affected by negative shocks happening to their partner than non-parents, owing to the entwined interests of the partner and the family,” Professor Frijters said. 
  
 Partners can affect each other’s mental health via many routes. If a partner is experiencing mental distress, this might not merely have a direct empathic effect on others, it may also reduce how much time they spend on household chores, reduce contact with children or other family members and thus leave more to do for others. |||||