Play Facebook 
  
 Twitter 
  
 Embed Georgia principal fired over racial remark 0:23 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
  
 The founder of a suburban Atlanta private school who singled out black attendees at a graduation ceremony last week has been fired. 
  
 Nancy Gordeuk, who also served as principal of TNT Academy in Stone Mountain, was booted by the board of directors after her comments were caught on video and went viral. 
  
 In a letter obtained by NBC affiliate WXIA, Chairwoman Heidi Anderson said the decision was made "in light of recent events" and that educators would "continue to prioritize support for most of our recent graduates." 
  
 At the ceremony, Gordeuk mistakenly dismissed attendees before the valedictorian spoke, the station reported. She asked them to return to their seats, then said amid the confusion: "Look who's leaving, all the black people." 
  
 Gordeuk said later that people were being disruptive when the valedictorian attempted to speak, and that she was frustrated. "When I looked up, all I saw was black families leaving, and thus the comment," she told NBC News. 
  
 "I didn't know 'black people' was a racist term. I didn't say the N-word or anything like that 'cause that isn't in my vocabulary," Gordeuk added. 
  
 She also apologized for her "racist comment" and asked for forgiveness. 
  
 Play Facebook 
  
 Twitter 
  
 Embed Georgia Principal Says She's No Racist 1:53 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
  
 IN-DEPTH 
  
 SOCIAL 
  
 — Erik Ortiz ||||| × Son of principal in racial controversy joins her in hot seat; but says tweets weren’t his 
  
 Cartersville, GA — Travis Gordeuk, the son of TNT Academy Principal Nancy Gordeuk, is joining his mother in the hot seat. 
  
 Recently posted on his Twitter account were a number of controversial statements. In one of them, he used the N-word and said if anyone had a problem with him to, “Come and see me.” 
  
 Another tweet mentioned his actual address. 
  
 Gordeuk’s mother was involved in a racial controversy over the weekend at a graduation ceremony. Video shows Nancy Gordeuk standing at the podium in front of a live microphone as she says, “You people are being so rude, to not listen to this speech.” 
  
 As commotion grows in the audience, she blurts out, “Look who’s leaving, all the black people,” prompting cries from the audience and an even larger exodus. 
  
 Gordeuk, in a statement to CNN, apologized for her “offensive comment” and said “my emotions got the best of me.” 
  
 “I deeply apologize for my actions made in the emotional state of trying to let this last student finish his speech. I take a personal interest in the success of every student that comes through our doors without regard to their race, religion or ethnicity.” 
  
 Travis Gordeuk wasn’t home when CBS46 arrived at his home, but people that live with him said the principal’s son never posted that tweet. Instead, they said his social media accounts were hacked. 
  
 Neighbors said they’ve never known him to be racist. 
  
 “He hangs out with a mixed group of people,” said Heidi Carter. 
  
 People who live next door went on to say that he’s a nice person. ||||| STONE MOUNTAIN, Ga. — The private school principal who gained national attention for a racially charged comment she made during a graduation ceremony has been fired. 
  
 Dr. Heidi Anderson, chair of the board of directors at TNT Academy, wrote in a letter sent to the Gwinnett County NAACP that the board voted to dismiss school director Nancy Gordeuk: 
  
 In light of recent events, the board of directors of TNT Academy has moved to dismiss Nancy Gordeuk as principal. During the coming transition, we will continue to prioritize support for our most recent graduates. Moreover, we will continue our commitment to providing students with the best educational classes, transcription services, and academic credit recovery possible. 
  
 During last Friday’s graduation celebration, Gordeuk accidentally dismissed attendees before the school valedictorian could give a speech. As people began filing out of the room, she asked them to come back, then said, “Look who’s leaving, all the black people.” 
  
 Gordeuk later apologized to parents in an email, saying, “The devil was in the house and came out from my mouth. I deeply apologize for my racist comment and hope that forgiveness is in your hearts.” 
  
 TNT Academy is a non-traditional school for home-schooled students hoping to obtain accredited degrees. |||||