Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Husband Muhammad Iqbal spoke to the BBC in May 2014 about the attack 
  
 The husband of a Pakistani woman stoned to death by her own family in broad daylight outside a Lahore court says police just stood by during the attack. 
  
 Farzana Parveen, who was three months pregnant, was pelted with bricks and bludgeoned by relatives furious because she married against their wishes. 
  
 "They watched Farzana being killed and did nothing," her husband, Muhammad Iqbal, told the BBC. 
  
 There are hundreds of so-called "honour killings" in Pakistan each year. 
  
 UN human rights chief Navi Pillay said she was "deeply shocked" and urged Pakistan's government to take "urgent and strong measures". 
  
 "I do not even wish to use the phrase 'honour killing': there is not the faintest vestige of honour in killing a woman in this way." 
  
 Mr Iqbal described the police as "shameful" and "inhuman" for their failure to stop the attack. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Police questioned witnesses as Ms Parveen's bloodied body lay on the pavement 
  
 "We were shouting for help, but nobody listened. One of my relatives took off his clothes to capture police attention but they didn't intervene. 
  
 Arranged marriages are the norm in Pakistan and to marry against the wishes of the family is unthinkable in many deeply conservative communities. 
  
 Shahzeb Jillani, BBC News, Karachi 
  
 This murder has appalled Pakistan's tiny but vocal civil society. Social media activists took to Twitter and Facebook to express their shock and horror. English language newspapers have published strongly-worded editorials to denounce the brutal crime. 
  
 But all that is in sharp contrast to the muted reaction in the mainstream Urdu language media which, instead, chose to focus on political and security-related stories. 
  
 This despite the fact that that killing of a woman in the name of honour remains an appalling reality in villages and towns across Pakistan. 
  
 As Dawn newspaper points out in its editorial: "The most shocking aspect of this killing, however, is that all the people witnessing the crime, even the law enforcers, were silent spectators as a woman was bludgeoned to her death." 
  
 Ms Parveen's father later surrendered to police but other relatives who took part in the attack are still free. 
  
 Mr Iqbal said they were threatening him and his family. 
  
 "Yesterday [on Tuesday] they said they would snatch the dead body," he said. "We came here with a police escort." 
  
 "We arrested a few of them and others are currently being investigated," local police chief Mujahid Hussain said. 
  
 Dragged to floor 
  
 Ms Parveen comes from a small town outside the city of Lahore. According to reports, her family were furious because she decided to marry Mr Iqbal instead of a man they had chosen. 
  
 Her relatives then filed a case for abduction against Mr Iqbal at the High Court. 
  
 Honour killings in Pakistan 
  
 Image copyright Getty Images 
  
 •In 2013, 869 women murdered in so called "honour killings" 
  
 •Campaigners say real number is likely to be much higher 
  
 •Of these, 359 were so called "Karo Kari" cases, whereby family members consider themselves authorised to kill offending relatives to restore honour 
  
 •Rights groups say conviction rate in cases of sexual and other violence against women is "critically low" 
  
 Source: Human Rights Commission of Pakistan annual report 2013 
  
 The newlyweds were only at the Lahore court to contest this case. Ms Parveen had already testified to police that she had married of her own free will. 
  
 Mr Iqbal told the BBC that when the couple arrived at the court on Tuesday to contest the case, his wife's relatives were waiting and tried to take her away. 
  
 As she struggled to free herself they dragged her to the floor, pelted her with bricks and then smashed her head. She died on the pavement. 
  
 The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan says 869 women were murdered in "honour killings" in the country last year, although it is believed that the real figure could be higher. ||||| ISLAMABAD (AP) — A pregnant Pakistani woman beaten and stoned to death by her own family for marrying against their wishes was buried before dawn Wednesday as police pressed a manhunt for those who took part in the so-called "honor killing" outside a courthouse in downtown Lahore. 
  
 Mustafa Kharal, lawyer of pregnant woman Farzana Parveen who was stoned to death, shows her marriage certificate in Lahore, Pakistan, Wednesday, May 28, 2014. Nearly 20 members of the woman's family,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Mustafa Kharal, lawyer of pregnant woman Farzana Parveen who was stoned to death, shows the area where she was killed in Lahore, Pakistan, Wednesday, May 28, 2014. Nearly 20 members of the woman's family,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Her father was arrested shortly after the killing on Tuesday, and confessed to having killed his daughter because she had married a man of her choice, defying the family's wishes and conservative norms in the Muslim-majority country. 
  
 Farzana Parveen, 25, was buried in the presence of some 100 mourners from her husband's family at around 2 a.m. in a village graveyard in Pakistan's eastern Punjab province, her husband Mohammad Iqbal said. 
  
 He said his family had chosen to bury her at night because of the gruesome state of her remains. 
  
 Iqbal, 45, said they had gone to the high court in Lahore on Tuesday to contest a criminal complaint filed against him by his father-in-law, Mohammad Azeem, who accused him of abducting his daughter. The couple was attacked as they approached the courthouse. 
  
 Authorities say the father described the attack as an "honor killing," a term used for the murder of women accused of violating the sexual mores of conservative societies. 
  
 "We loved each other. We got married on January 7, 2014 and my wife was three months' pregnant," Iqbal told The Associated Press. 
  
 "My wife wanted to tell the court that I had not kidnapped her. We were going to the court with our lawyer Mustafa Kharal, and we were near the court when three dozen people suddenly attacked us," he said in a telephone interview from his village. 
  
 He said the attackers included his wife's father, two brothers and a woman. 
  
 "I saw a young woman from my wife's family slapping her. Some people were also beating me... I tried to save my wife's life, but I failed," he said. 
  
 Arranged marriages are the norm among many conservative Pakistanis, and hundreds of women are murdered every year in so-called honor killings carried out by husbands or relatives as a punishment for alleged adultery or other illicit sexual behavior. 
  
 However, stoning in public settings is extremely rare. 
  
 Police investigator Rana Absar said Azeem surrendered hours after the attack and was in custody, and that police were searching for the others accused of taking part in the killing. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press Writer Zaheer Babar in Lahore contributed to this report. ||||| The husband of a woman battered to death on the streets of Lahore in the name of family "honour" said on Wednesday that her parents had fully agreed to their marriage, only later turning against him after he refused to give them more money. 
  
 Muhammad Iqbal's wife Farzana, 25, was killed in broad daylight outside Lahore's grand High Court complex after being attacked by a mob of around 20 male relatives, including her brothers and cousins. 
  
 Some reports said policemen watched the incident without intervening – all of the attackers managed to escape except her father, Muhammad Azeem, who had watched the entire attack and was arrested. 
  
 He told police that he wanted his daughter to be killed because "she had insulted all of our family by marrying a man without our consent" rather than another man, a cousin, who he had selected. 
  
 But her distraught husband, who witnessed the entire attack, said Azeem had supported the marriage for an engagement period that lasted almost two years, during which he was allowed to talk to Farzana regularly on the phone without actually meeting her. 
  
 The two men, both farmers from the same extended family who live in rural districts far from Lahore, had struck a deal whereby Iqbal paid Azeem £500 for the right to marry his daughter. But later he asked for another £600. 
  
 "The whole settlement had been agreed but then they got into trouble with their house expenses and they demanded more money," Iqbal told the Guardian. "Because I have more land than them, they think I am rich." 
  
 Rather than paying more, he and Farzana opted for a "court marriage", where she swore she was marrying of her own free will. 
  
 Her father responded by filing a complaint against Iqbal, who he accused of kidnapping her daughter. 
  
 Farzana had arrived early on Tuesday morning at Lahore's busy High Court to record a statement that would have quashed her father's complaint. 
  
 But 20 male relatives were waiting for her and launched a horrific attack on the busy street in front of the court, first trying to shoot her and then laying about her head with bricks from a nearby building site. 
  
 Even after she had died, her relatives continued to beat her face with their shoes, Iqbal said. 
  
 Although "honour killings" are known to take place in rural communities across Pakistan, such a brazen attack in the heart of one of Pakistan's most important and refined cities has horrified human rights activists. 
  
 "[Farzana's] murder was no case of sudden provocation, as several months had passed after her marriage," said Zohra Yusuf, chairperson of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP). "The family had obviously come prepared to commit murder." 
  
 In 2013 almost 900 women were killed by honour crimes, according the HRCP – although the real number is likely to be far higher, as most killings are never reported. 
  
 The state had failed to "confront this feudal practice supported by religiosity and bigotry", the commission said. 
  
 Conviction rates against honour crimes are pitiful because the killers are often allowed to walk free by Pakistan's Islamic-tinged legal system, which includes concepts that give the right of forgiveness to close relations of murder victims. 
  
 Tahira Abdullah, a human rights activist, said it was vital the country follow the civil code rather than Sharia law. 
  
 "This woman was pregnant so it is a double murder and these murderers must be prosecuted under the criminal laws of Pakistan," she said. 
  
 "We are now at a crossroads where we have to decide whether we continue going down the Talibanisation route or whether we go down the rule of law route." 
  
 Iqbal said his wife's killers would not escape justice as he was her next of kin and only he had the right to waive punishment. 
  
 "I will never forget the scene and I will never forgive them," he said. |||||