Adrenalin junkies Vitaliy Raskalov, 20, and Vadim Makhorov, 24, captured the dizzying bird's eye view from the top of the Shanghai Tower after a two-hour ascent. 
  
 The pair, from Novosibirsk and Moscow filmed themselves breaking into and climbing the 2,073ft tower - twice the height of London's Shard building. 
  
 Apparently unsatisfied with the view, they then climbed the crane on top of the partially-constructed building in Shanghai's Luijiazui district . 
  
 Unbelievably, the self-styled "sky walkers" used no safety equipment on their ascent and had to wait for the cover of darkness to avoid the Chinese authorities. 
  
 Mr Makhorov said, "there are a lot of guards and cameras around in the day time, so we started climbing during the night, it was easier to stay unnoticed that way. 
  
 READ: Five of the scariest free climbing videos 
  
 "It took about two hours to get to the top, but when we got there we could only see clouds. 
  
 "We had to wait for hours for the clouds to part, but it was well worth the wait, the view was like something from an aircraft window. 
  
 "As soon as we saw a gap in the clouds were climbed right to the top of the crane and were able to get some great shots of the city below. 
  
 "We were not afraid at all and we have never had any injuries as a result of our sky walking. 
  
 "As a result of our 'mission', we didn't get any sleep for over 24 hours, it was physically and mentally challenging for the both of us. 
  
 "Our target was to climb the highest tower in China and the seconds highest in the world, it felt amazing to accomplish it, the sky is the limit!" 
  
 The view from the top of the Shanghai Tower 
  
 In just one month in 2013, the duo conquered 12 cities in seven countries, scaling famous landmarks including the Eiffel Tower, and Barcelona's Sagrada Familia cathedral. 
  
 Gallery: The world's most terrifying jobs ||||| Armed with GoPro cameras and nerves of steel and without the comfort of ropes and harnesses, Russian adventurers/daredevils/adrenaline junkies Vitaliy Raskalov and Vadim Makhorov capture the bird’s eye view from the top of the Shanghai Tower. If you’re not on the verge of a panic attack by the four-minute mark then it might be time you got a psychological evaluation. |||||