Passengers is two-thirds of an amazing movie, a sci-fi romance that gives its heart away too early and doesn’t know what to do with itself after that. That’s a shame, because the deep-seated melancholy of the movie’s first third—and the idyllic, too-good-to-be true romantic bliss that flowers in the second—are rare, delicate qualities in the science fiction we’re getting these days. I’m afraid people will scoff at what they see as the silliness of Passengers even as they spend hours tripping over themselves to make a case for Rogue One as a deep, serious, anti-fascist film. (It is anti-fascist, but only in the most facile, uninteresting ways.) 
  
 But if the best science fiction is less about outer space than inner space—about the ways pushing out forces us to confront the most fearful and fragile parts of ourselves—then Passengers at least deserves a chance. The movie opens with a man waking up in a glass pod: Chris Pratt’s Jim is a brawny mechanic who’s one of several thousand Earth people on their way to a distant planet, where they’ll start a new life. It takes a few hundred Earth years to get there, so everyone must sleep on the way. But a pod malfunction has caused Jim to wake up 90 years too soon. The poor guy went into hypersleep thinking he’d eventually awaken to a lively, bustling social life on the ship, a space-age ocean liner equipped with rec areas, an automat-style breakfast area, and a glamorous futuristic-retro art deco bar that wouldn’t have looked out of place in the Chrysler Building circa 1935. Instead, Jim wakes up alone. It’s the bro-bummer of a lifetime. 
  
 So he wanders through the ship, trying to figure out how he might game the system and get back to sleep. Everything onboard is controlled by invisible, automated voices—there’s no real human in sight, and no real human voice within earshot. Jim tries to get answers to his many questions, but his pleas fall on deaf ears. It’s grimly funny very time he hears, “I didn’t understand that.” We’ve all been there. 
  
 There’s only one person for Jim to talk to, and he isn’t even a person. Arthur (a sleek, gleaming Michael Sheen) is a painstakingly well-groomed android who looks, talks and listens like a bartender but who’s really only programmed to do so. Jim spends hours at the bar, pouring out his loneliness. He gets drunk a lot and wears ugly shorts all the time. He grows a fat, rounded, deeply unflattering Yukon Cornelius beard. This is what straight guys do without the (allegedly) civilized influence of women, and the movie is in on the joke. But if Jim’s mopiness is played partly for laughs, his despair is genuine. Pratt is a good enough actor to convey both, and when Jim goes for a lonely space walk—the ship is outfitted with special Buzz Lightyear-style suits for doing so—he’s both visibly overwhelmed by the wonder of the star-dotted velvet around him and wrecked with despair because there’s no one to share it with. 
  
 And then suddenly, somehow, Jim is no longer alone. There’s a girl he likes, a smart, funny writer named Aurora (just like the princess in Walt Disney’s Sleeping Beauty), and she’s played by Jennifer Lawrence, who somehow looks more radiant than usual: Her face is a little fuller and softer—she’s like a baby Ellen Barkin. Aurora awakens early too, and Jim wins her heart, but only through an act of deception. At first, Aurora has trouble accepting that she’s doomed to live the rest of her life on a mostly deserted space ship. But she succumbs to the idea, and to Jim, too. The two go for a romantic space walk—at last, Jim has someone with whom to share the glory of space’s emptiness!—and try to kiss afterward. Their barrel-shaped suits keep them from getting too close, and they laugh. They’ve become an Adam and Eve for End Times. 
  
 The knowledge of Jim’s deceit tortures him, but he’s also happier than he has ever been. And if that’s not a great fainting couch on which to drape a science-fiction romance, what is? Passengers’ director is Morten Tyldum (The Imitation Game), working from a script by Jon Spaihts, and he vests much of the movie with a buzzing neon glow. (The space-walk scenes, contrasting glo-stick luminescence with inky blackness, are particularly beautiful.) But the movie runs aground in the last third: It’s as if Tyldum and Spaihts know they can’t get too wiggy, so they take a hard right and try to land their ship in more conventional territory. 
  
 Along the way they make what appears to be a failed attempt to channel the intense doomed romanticism of Brian De Palma’s Mission to Mars (specifically, the sorrowful and glorious scene in which astronaut Connie Nielsen fails to save her fellow astronaut husband, Tim Robbins). By that point, Tyldum has crashed his ship, figuratively speaking—inside this failed picture there’s a sicker, darker, more truthful one crying to get out. But for a while, Passengers is really going for something. The movie it might have been is lost in space, alone, never to be seen by mere mortals. All we can see from Earth are its few brightly burning scraps, but at least it’s something. ||||| * ½ stars | Sci-fi | PG-13 | 116 minutes 
  
 Note: This review contains mild spoilers and plot points. 
  
 For the first few minutes of “Passengers,” Jim Preston is as likable as they come. 
  
 As a mechanic on the Starship Avalon, Preston — played as a childlike everyman by Chris Pratt — has accidentally been roused from his hibernation en route to a new world, where his future seems as blank and promising as his character. 
  
 It’s a mystery for Preston as to why he’s the only one of 5,000 passengers to have woken up early — really, really early, as in, 90 years before his ship’s arrival on the distant Homestead II (Preston is from Denver, it says on his pod, but that fact never plays into his character). 
  
 Faced with a lifetime of solitude, Preston attempts to make do on the luxury space cruiser, which is basically an empty, live-action version of the Axiom from Pixar’s 2008 sci-fi masterpiece “WALL-E.” Director Morten Tyldum and screenwriter Jon Spaihts check the boxes on Preston’s slow realization of his fate, from comedic montages of Preston dealing with the ship’s imperfect technology to blatant foreshadowing of its ever-increasing malfunctions. 
  
 With a production design that wisely declines to improve on mid-to-late 20th century futurism (especially Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey”) and some convenient monologues by Preston, “Passengers” hums along nicely for much of its first act. 
  
 “We’re all in this together,” a hologram announces to a room that’s empty except for Preston. It’s both an ironic joke and cutting commentary on technology’s role in alienating people in a crowded society, since Preston is basically living in a hyper-realized version of customer-service hell. His only companion, the droll android bartender Arthur (Michael Sheen, who comes off as a less manic Simon Pegg), appropriately acts as Preston’s echo chamber, encouraging him to do whatever he’s doing and camouflaging it as a two-way conversation. (Sound familiar?) 
  
 After nearly a year alone, Preston notices a beautiful woman in one of the hibernation capsules and sets out to learn everything about her. Aurora Lane (Jennifer Lawrence) is an ambitious writer with hours of video testimonials available for Pratt to watch. He does, seated next to her capsule, as he becomes increasingly desperate and obsessed with the idea of waking her up. He knows it’s wrong to doom her, but he’s unable to help himself. 
  
 What happens next deserves a violent tonal shift — from the film’s budding sci-fi romantic comedy overtures to psychological horror — that never arrives. Preston wakes Lane, lies to her about how it happened and then cautiously starts wooing her into a sexual relationship. She’s skeptical and smart but also arrogant, a stereotype of a snobby writer who claims to know the human condition but is prone to elitist generalizations. 
  
 Seeing these gorgeous, sparkly-eyed actors with palpable chemistry is diverting enough for awhile — and it’s meant to be. As an actor, Lawrence brings warmth and charisma to the screen as we’re presented with classic rom-com montages of her and Pratt dancing, laughing and otherwise loosening up in each others’ presence. It’s a desert-island fantasy come true. 
  
 Only when Lane learns the truth about how she woke up is there anything resembling a coherent viewpoint in the film. She screams that Preston has essentially murdered her, and she’s right: Preston has decided that what’s best for him is also what’s best for her (although not without some hand-wringing on his part). In these brief minutes, we see a glimpse of the more interesting movie this could have been, one that wrestles with the damage that men inflict on women when they make assumptions about what women need. 
  
 Instead, we swing fully back to Preston’s point of view as we’re caught up in a cascading series of sci-fi tropes and not-so-interesting revelations about the ship’s malfunctions. Laurence Fishburne shows up briefly and too late, playing a one-dimensional father figure and crew member who effectively absolves Pratt of his sins. 
  
 Cultural outrage is so common today that reading “Passengers” as a film by and for the male mindset feels simplistic. But truly, it’s not hard to see “Passengers” as fundamentally justifying Lane’s stalking and captivity. “Don’t worry if she’s mad at first, she’ll come around because you’re a good guy at heart,” it says unambiguously, over and over again. 
  
 Seen from the perspective of Lawrence’s character, “Passengers” is a terrifying story of emotional manipulation and eventual acquiescence to a numbing fate. The script attempts to tie things into a bow that offers a lesson for making the best of bad situations. But it rings as hollow as the shiny, cavernous spaces that provide much of the movie’s backdrop. 
  
 At best, “Passengers” is a pleasant, big-budget movie that unfolds in glib and cutesy ways despite its otherwise serious themes. At worst, it’s an argument that men can do whatever they want with the knowledge that things will always work out for them. Whether this message is intentional or not, Preston’s character is still rewarded for it. Lane identifies with, and ultimately declares her love for, her captor. 
  
 Even if you’re not bothered by the plot or politics, “Passengers” is a waste of two immensely likable actors’ talent — with Lawrence flexing the most acting muscle. There are a few things to applaud, from the non-franchise-ready story to sleek imagery and occasionally inspired set pieces (see the zero-gravity swimming pool). But it’s hard to shake the feeling that deep down, “Passengers” is making a disturbingly regressive statement amid the generic sci-fi spectacle. It’s not sure what kind of movie it is and that, above all, may be the thing that dooms it to a lifetime of rudderless drifting. |||||