Media playback is not supported on this device
Hogg received 30% of the public votes, with Billy Vunipola (27%) second after helping England to the Grand Slam.
Wales wing George North, the top try-scorer with four tries, came third in the public vote with 11%.
Hogg, in superb form throughout the tournament, capped by a wonderful solo try against Ireland, told BBC Scotland  the award "means a great deal".
"I played in a very good Scotland side these past few weeks, and to get the award is really pleasing," he added.
"I was playing with confidence, I was having lots of fun as well. The game plan suited our back division and it was good to get a couple of good wins on the board.
"For us now, that's the minimum standard; we've got to be winning game after game and looking to win trophies."
With the Scots in desperate need of a win after nine Six Nations defeats in a row, Hogg created two tries as Vern Cotter's men swept to victory over Italy in Rome.
With the Scots in desperate need of a win after nine Six Nations defeats in a row, Hogg created two tries as Vern Cotter's men swept to victory over Italy in Rome.
After crossing for his team's opening try against France at Murrayfield, Hogg's audacious mid-air flick to send Tim Visser over in the corner sealed a first Scottish victory over the French in a decade.
Media playback is not supported on this device
He then lit up the Aviva Stadium with a majestic score from inside his own half against Ireland, further evidence the 23-year-old is playing the best rugby of his career.
"We're all thrilled to have a Scottish player recognised by the public in a year where three teams finished above them in the Six Nations," said Glasgow head coach Gregor Townsend.
"That shows what an impact he had. It's a testament to how Stuart has conducted himself, how he's worked really hard during games and shown his ability."
Vunipola was a consistently impressive figure as England delivered five wins from five in Eddie Jones' first Six Nations as head coach.
The powerful number eight finished the campaign in the top five for ball-carries, metres made, defenders beaten and offloads.
Ireland scrum-half Conor Murray came fourth, with England wing Jack Nowell fifth and Italy captain Sergio Parisse making up the top six.
Media playback is not supported on this device