Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| ‘I have never seen that level of chaos and hysteria and terror,’ says witness in Nice who watched event unfold from hotel 
  
 Witnesses have described chaos and stampedes as parents threw their children over fences to save them after a truck ploughed into a crowd of Bastille Day revellers in the French city of Nice, killing at least 80 people. 
  
 Ismali Khalidi, a US-Palestinian writer who was in the city to visit his sister, told the Guardian: “All of a sudden we saw essentially a stampede of people coming along the Promenade des Anglais.” 
  
 Bastille Day truck attack: French president denounces 'monstrous' killing of 80 people – live updates Read more 
  
 “The stampede just sort of kept coming … we are talking families, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people. 
  
 “Then all of a sudden the stampede started coming from the other direction ... I have never seen that level of chaos and hysteria and terror and a total lack of information about what’s going on.” 
  
 People had gathered on the seafront on Thursday night to enjoy a fireworks display marking Bastille Day when an armed man drove a truck along the pavement, reportedly for up to 2km. Witnesses described people being knocked down “like skittles at a bowling alley”. 
  
 It is believed the man then got out of the truck and began shooting people, before being shot dead by police. 
  
 Khalidi, who was watching the fireworks from the Hotel Negresco about 800 metres down the promenade, said police, in their efforts to get people away from the area, had added to the chaos. 
  
 “People coming towards us said that the cops had told people to start running, without really telling people why. So people had started running for their lives without any other information.” 
  
 Khalidi said he and his friends had cut through side streets to avoid the crowd, because “at that time the stampede seemed like the unsafe thing”, and made their way across the city. Tourists, gathered in large numbers to watch the fireworks, were running through the street. Parents were carrying their children. 
  
 “We saw a guy basically throw his kids over a fence and then jump after them,” he said. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest People cross the street with their hands on their heads as French soldiers secure the area. Photograph: Jean-Pierre Amet/Reuters 
  
 Another witness said it had taken emergency services 25 minutes to reach the Promenade des Anglais. “A truck arrived and smashed into everyone. Everyone,” the man said, turning to wave at the fire trucks behind him. “There was no security, it took the firefighters 25 minutes or half an hour to arrive.” 
  
 Sophie Sanderlands, an Australian tourist, told Channel Seven in Australia she had been swept up in the stampede. 
  
 “There was live music, people everywhere, really happy mood, nothing was out of place, and then all of a sudden thousands of people just started running towards us screaming, crying, absolutely out of control – we sort of had no choice but to start running with them,” she said. 
  
 She went with the crowd towards the Place Masséna. “There were strollers on the ground, people crammed into restaurants,” she said. “People couldn’t get into restaurants, they were shutting them out because there was no room left.” 
  
 Katie Baronie Shaw, a visitor from Perth in Western Australia, said she and her friend had been in a bar when the gunshots started. Staff pushed everyone into the back and pulled the roller doors down. 
  
  
  
 “We had no idea what was going on,” she said. “Then all we could hear was gunshots. 
  
 “My friend just grabbed me and we all went out the back stairs and had to sprint out, staying low, with guys ushering us away from the foreshore ... We just sprinted, heads down. I’ve never been so terrified in my life.” ||||| NICE, France (Reuters) - French authorities were trying to determine on Friday whether a Tunisian who killed at least 84 people by plowing a truck into Bastille Day crowds had acted alone or with accomplices, but said the attack bore the hallmarks of Islamist militants. 
  
 Thursday night’s attack in the Riviera city of Nice plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Those attacks, and one in Brussels four months ago, shocked Western Europe, already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration, open borders and pockets of Islamist radicalism. 
  
 The truck zigzagged along the city’s seafront Promenade des Anglais as a fireworks display marking the French national day ended. It careered into families and friends listening to an orchestra or strolling above the Mediterranean beach towards the century-old grand Hotel Negresco. 
  
 At least 10 children were among the dead. Of the scores of injured, 25 were on life support, authorities said on Friday. 
  
 Witness Franck Sidoli said he had watched people mown down before the truck finally stopped just five meters away from him. 
  
 “A woman was there, she lost her son. Her son was on the ground, bleeding,” he told Reuters at the scene. 
  
 The driver, 31-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, was shot dead by officers at the scene. He was known to police for petty crimes but was not on a watch list of suspected militants. He had one criminal conviction, for road rage, and was sentenced to probation three months ago for throwing a wooden pallet at another driver. 
  
 The investigation “will try to determine whether he benefited from accomplices,” Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. “It will also try to find out whether Mohamed Laouaiej Bouhlel had ties to Islamist terrorist organizations.” 
  
 “Although yesterday’s attack has not been claimed, this sort of thing fits in perfectly with calls for murder from such terrorist organizations,” Molins added. 
  
 Bouhlel’s ex-wife was in police custody, Molins said. He had three children. Police found one pistol and various fake weapons in his truck. 
  
 French Prime Minister Manuel Valls told the evening news that Bouhlel was “one way or another” linked to radical Islam. “Yes, it is a terrorist act and we shall see what links there are with terrorist organizations.” 
  
 Yet despite numerous French officials from President Francois Hollande down describing it as a terrorist attack, by nightfall on Friday officials still had not disclosed any direct evidence linking Bouhlel with extremists. 
  
 Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, asked if he could confirm the attacker’s motives were linked to jihadism, said: “No. ... We have an individual who was not known to intelligence services for activities linked to jihadism.” 
  
 A U.S. official familiar with Washington’s assessment said the attack was thought to have been carried out by a “lone wolf” inspired but not directed by Islamic State. 
  
 The former top terrorism investigator for the French judicial system said that while the attack fits the profile of the kind undertaken by militant groups, the available evidence suggests the attacker had no evident connection with militant organizations or ideology. 
  
 Jean-Louis Bruguiere, formerly the top Paris-based investigative magistrate handling terrorism-related cases, told Reuters no French or European intelligence or security agency had any trace on the suspect and no evidence has surfaced to connect him to any militant group or other suspects or even to casual contact with militant literature or propaganda. 
  
 He said so far there is no evidence Bouhlel had any association with any religious group or faction but that there was evidence he was estranged from his family and going through some kind of divorce. 
  
 DRIED BLOOD, SMASHED STROLLERS 
  
 Dawn broke on Friday with pavements smeared with dried blood. Smashed strollers, an uneaten baguette and other debris were strewn about. Small areas were screened off and what appeared to be bodies covered in blankets were visible. 
  
 The truck was still where it had come to rest, its windscreen riddled with bullets. 
  
 “I saw this enormous white truck go past at top speed,” said Suzy Wargniez, 65, who had watched from a cafe on the promenade. 
  
 At Nice’s Pasteur hospital, medical staff were treating large numbers of injured. Waiting for friends being operated on was 20-year-old Fanny. 
  
 “The truck pushed me to the side. When I opened my eyes I saw faces I didn’t know and started asking for help,” she told Reuters. “Some of my friends were not so lucky. They are having operations as we speak.” 
  
 Neighbors in the neighborhood in northern Nice where Bouhlel lived described him as handsome but an unsettling presence. 
  
 “I would say he was someone who was pleasing to women,” said neighbor Hanan, standing in the lobby of the apartment building where Bouhlel lived. “But he was frightening. He didn’t have a frightening face, but ... a look. He would stare at the children a lot.” 
  
 Bouhlel’s Tunisian home town Msaken is about 10 km (six miles) outside the coastal city of Sousse, where a gunman killed 38 people, mostly British holidaymakers, on a beach a year ago. Many people from the area have moved to France, including Nice, and money they send back has made it comparatively prosperous. 
  
 A former neighbor in Msaken told Reuters Bouhlel had left for France in 2005 after getting married, and had worked as a driver. 
  
 Relatives and neighbors in Msaken said Bouhlel was sporty and had shown no sign of being radicalized, including when he last returned for the wedding of a sister four years ago. 
  
 A nephew, Ibrahim, said he had called three days ago saying he was preparing a trip back for a family party. Bouhlel’s brother, Jabeur, said he doubted his sibling was the attacker. 
  
 “Why would my brother do something like this?” he told Reuters, adding: “We’ve been calling him since yesterday evening but he’s not responding.” 
  
 Investigators continue to work at the scene near the heavy truck that ran into a crowd at high speed killing scores who were celebrating the Bastille Day July 14 national holiday on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France, July 15, 2016. REUTERS/Eric Gaillard 
  
 GRITTY METROPOLIS 
  
 Nice, a city of 350,000, has a history as a flamboyant aristocratic resort but is also a gritty metropolis, where Islamist radicalism has brewed, away from the scenic streets of its old town. It and the surrounding Alpes-Maritimes region, with a population of just over a million, are thought to have produced as many as 10 percent of the French citizens who have traveled to wage jihad in the Middle East. 
  
 After Thursday’s attack, a state of emergency imposed across France after the November attacks in Paris was extended by three months and military and police reservists were to be called up. 
  
 “France is filled with sadness by this new tragedy,” Hollande said in a dawn address that called it an act of terrorism. 
  
 Nice-Matin journalist Damien Allemand had been watching the firework display when the truck tore by. After taking cover in a cafe, he wrote on his paper’s website of what he saw: “Bodies every five meters, limbs ... Blood. Groans.” 
  
 “The beach attendants were first on the scene. They brought water for the injured and towels, which they placed on those for whom there was no more hope.” 
  
 Police carried out a controlled explosion on a white van near the home, blowing the doors open and leaving shattered glass all around. It was not clear what they found. 
  
 CRITICISM 
  
 With presidential and parliamentary elections less than a year away, French opposition politicians seized on what they described as security failings that made it possible for the truck to career 2 km (1.5 miles) through large crowds before it was finally halted. 
  
 Christian Estrosi, a security hardliner who was mayor of Nice until last month and is now president of the wider Riviera region, had written on the eve of the attack to Hollande to demand more funding for police. 
  
 “As far as I’m concerned, I demand answers, and not the usual stuff,” Estrosi told BFM TV hours after the attack, questioning whether the government had provided enough national police officers for the fireworks display. 
  
 France is a major part of a U.S.-led mission conducting air strikes and special forces operations against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and has also sent troops to West Africa to battle Islamist insurgents. 
  
 “We will further strengthen our actions in Syria and Iraq,” Hollande said, calling the tragedy - on the day France marks the 1789 revolutionary storming of the Bastille prison in Paris - an attack on liberty by fanatics who despised human rights. 
  
 “We are facing a battle that will be long because facing us is an enemy that wants to continue to strike all people and all countries that have values like ours,” he said. 
  
 France is home to the European Union’s biggest Muslim population, mostly descended from immigrants from North African former colonies. It maintains a secular culture that allows no place for religion in schools and civic life, which supporters say encourages a common French identity but critics say contributes to alienation in some communities. 
  
 The Paris attack in November was the bloodiest among a number in France and Belgium in the past two years. On Sunday, a weary nation had breathed a sigh of relief that the month-long Euro 2016 soccer tournament had ended without serious incident. 
  
 Slideshow (25 Images) 
  
 Four months ago, Belgian Islamists linked to the Paris attackers killed 32 people in Brussels. Recent weeks have also seen major attacks in Bangladesh, Turkey and Iraq. 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama condemned what he said “appears to be a horrific terrorist attack”. In televised remarks he later said the United States would stand with France and keep up the fight against Islamic State: “We will not be deterred. We will not relent.” 
  
 On social media, Islamic State supporters celebrated the high death toll and posted a series of images, one showing a beach purporting to be that of Nice with white stones arranged to read “IS is here to stay” in Arabic. ||||| In this video grab taken Thursday July 14, 2016, a policeman chase people out of the cordoned-off area after a truck drove on to the sidewalk and plowed through a crowd of revelers who’d gathered to watch... (Associated Press) 
  
 In this video grab taken Thursday July 14, 2016, a policeman chase people out of the cordoned-off area after a truck drove on to the sidewalk and plowed through a crowd of revelers who’d gathered to watch the fireworks in the French resort city of Nice. Officials and eyewitnesses described as a deliberate... (Associated Press) 
  
 NICE, France (AP) — France has been stunned again as a large white truck mowed through a crowd of revelers gathered for a Bastille Day fireworks display in the Riviera city of Nice, killing at least 80 and leaving what one witness said was "bodies everywhere." 
  
 The attack Thursday night on France's national holiday rocked a nation still dealing with the shock of the attacks last November in Paris that killed 130. 
  
 Flags were lowered to half-staff in Nice and in Paris. 
  
 Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, who traveled to the scene, said another 18 people were seriously hurt. He said police were trying to determine the driver's identity, refusing to confirm reports an ID card had been found in the truck. 
  
 French media broadcasts showed partiers in summer apparel running for their lives down Nice's palm tree-lined Promenade des Anglais, the famous seaside boulevard named for the English aristocrats who proposed its construction in the 19th century. 
  
 "France was struck on the day of its national fete, July 14, the symbol of liberty," a somber President Francois Hollande, said on national television early Friday, denouncing "this monstrosity" — a truck bearing down on citizens "with the intention of killing, smashing and massacring ... an absolute violence." 
  
 "The terrorist character (of the attack) cannot be denied," he said. "All of France is under the threat of Islamic terrorists." 
  
 Hollande said a state of emergency — which was to have ended July 26 — would be extended for three months. First imposed after the November attacks, it has been renewed every three months. 
  
 Police killed the driver of the truck in what witnesses on French TV said was a hail of bullets, but Hollande said it was not immediately clear whether he had accomplices. The Paris prosecutor's office opened an investigation for "murder and attempted murder in an organized group linked to a terrorist enterprise." 
  
 France has lived with soldiers in the streets since the November attacks, and just days ago authorities beamed with price at the close of the month-long European football championships that ended July 10 without incident. 
  
 Wassim Bouhlel, a Nice native, told The Associated Press that he saw a truck drive into the crowd. "There was carnage on the road," he said. "Bodies everywhere." He said the driver emerged with a gun and started shooting. 
  
 Sylvie Toffin, a press officer with the local prefecture, said the truck ran over people on a "long trip" down the sidewalk that ended near Nice's Palais de la Mediterranee, a building that fronts the beach. 
  
 The president of the Provence Alpes Côte d'Azur region, which includes Nice, said the truck was loaded with arms and grenades, although police have not confirmed that. Christian Estrosi also told BFM TV that "the driver fired on the crowd, according to the police who killed him." 
  
 There is still confusion on what exactly happened on a night when thousands were celebrating. Witnesses, mostly unnamed, recounted on French television scenes of horror, with one saying the truck mowed people down like a ball in a bowling alley. 
  
 Video footage showed men and women — one or two pushing strollers — racing to get away from the scenes. Photos showed a truck with at least half a dozen bullet holes in its windshield. 
  
 Hollande called a defense council meeting Friday with key ministers, and will head to Nice after that. 
  
 French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said "we are in a war with terrorists who want to strike us at any price and in a very violent way." 
  
 Hollande announced a series of measures to bolster security. Besides continuing the state of emergency and the Sentinel operation with 10,000 soldiers on patrol, he said he was calling up "operational reserves," those who have served in the past and will be brought in to help police, particularly at French borders. 
  
 He reiterated that France is also bolstering its presence in Iraq and Syria, where he said earlier military advisers would be on the ground to help Iraqis take back the Islamic State stronghold of Mosul. 
  
 President Barack Obama condemned what he said "appears to be a horrific terrorist attack." 
  
 European Council president Donald Tusk said it was a "tragic paradox" that the victims of the attack in Nice were celebrating "liberty, equality and fraternity" — France's motto — on the country's national day. 
  
 Writing online, Nice Matin journalist Damien Allemand who was at the waterside said the fireworks display had finished and the crowd had got up to leave when they heard a noise and cries. 
  
 "A fraction of a second later, an enormous white truck came along at a crazy speed, turning the wheel to mow down the maximum number of people," he said. 
  
 "I saw bodies flying like bowling pins along its route. Heard noises, cries that I will never forget." 
  
 Graphic footage showed a scene of horror up and down the Promenade, with broken bodies splayed out on the asphalt, some of them piled near one another, others bleeding out onto the roadway or twisted into unnatural shapes. 
  
 "Help my mother, please!" one person yells out on the video. A pink girl's bicycle is briefly seen overturned by the side of the road. 
  
 Details of the footage could not immediately be verified. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Ganley reported from Paris. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writers Raphael Satter in Paris, Naomi Koppel in London and Josh Replogle in Miami contributed to this report. |||||