Gail Horalek, the mother of a seventh grade student at Meads Mill Middle School in Northville, said the school should have asked for parents' permission before assigning the book to students. 
  
 "That’s the issue. The problem is the school is giving the seventh graders inappropriate material and not explaining it to the parents," she said. 
  
 Horalek said she wants the unedited version of "Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl," which became part of the curriculum this year, removed from the school. 
  
 The school should have at least sent a letter home to parents, she said, similarly to how it's done for other sensitive material. 
  
 "If they watch any kind of movie with a swear word in it, I have to sign a permission slip," she said. 
  
 Horalek said every parent she has spoken to was not aware of the passages in the unedited version that describe the female body, which her daughter brought to her attention on April 12. 
  
 "She had two books to choose from and she chose 'The Diary of Anne Frank' and I thought that was awesome," she said. 
  
 After the class had been reading it for a week, Horalek said her daughter told her she didn't want to read the book anymore because it made her uncomfortable. Horalek thought it might be because of the book's depressing nature in regards to the Holocaust. But her daughter said that wasn't why and gave Horalek the page numbers for the graphic passages. 
  
 This particular material is inappropriate for seventh grade students to read, especially without their parents' knowledge, Horalek said. 
  
 "It doesn’t mean my child is sheltered, it doesn’t mean I live in a bubble, and it doesn’t mean I'm tyring to ban books," she said. 
  
 Horalek said her daughter approached her teacher about the passages with two other students, but the teacher didn't seem concerned. Horalek emailed the teacher about what was happening. 
  
 "I told her I understood that they're reading the book," she said. 
  
 However, Horalek said she told her daughter she didn't have to read it, and the teacher gave her permission to switch books. 
  
 The teacher advised Horalek to fill out a form for a formal complaint to which the teacher had five days to respond. If the parent is not happy with the response, the form goes to the principal who has another five days to respond. After that it goes to the school board, which does not have a time frame in which to respond, Horalek said. 
  
 Not wanting the issue to continue before reaching the school board's attention, Horalek said she emailed Robert Behnke, assistant superintendent for Instructional Services, telling him she had started the formal complaint process. 
  
 Do you think the school should have asked for parents' permission before assigning the book to students? Tell us in the comments. ||||| Are the passages in Anne Frank's diary too graphic for 7th grade? A mother in Northville says 'yes' and she has a filed a formal complaint with school district. 
  
 A 7th grade class in Northville is reading a newer, unedited version of the famous Anne Frank Diary. 
  
 In the book Frank talks about the discovery of her own genitalia in what some would consider graphic terms. 
  
 The book itself of course has served as a chilling account of the Holocaust during World War II. The first hand-writings of a young Jewish girl and the ordeal her family endured while hiding from the Nazis. 
  
 Parent Gail Horek says the book is too graphic and she wants to school district to go back to the edited version of the book. 
  
 What do you think? Is the material in this version of the Anne Frank Diary too graphic for 7th graders? Add your comments to the bottom of this story. Also read the response from the school district. 
  
  
  
 The following is the passage from the 'The Definitive Edition of the Diary of a Young Girl' that has a mother in Northville filing a formal complaint. 
  
  
  
 Until I was eleven or twelve, I didn't realize there was a second set of labia on the inside, since you couldn't see them. What's even funnier is that I thought urine came out of the clitoris…When you're standing up, all you see from the front is hair. Between your legs there are two soft, cushiony things, also covered with hair, which press together when you're standing, so you can't see what's inside. They separate when you sit down and they're very red and quite fleshy on the inside. In the upper part, between the outer labia, there's a fold of skin that, on second thought, looks like a kind of blister. That's the clitoris." 
  
 Response from Northville Schools: 
  
  
  
 Maurielle Lue, 
  
 Thank you for contacting me regarding a concern that was raised with you relative to the use of Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl, a book used within the seventh grade English Language Arts Curriculum. Northville Public Schools uses an established process to review concerns brought forth related to instructional materials used within our schools. Parents are considered partners in their children's learning and when concerns surface they are encouraged to communicate with the classroom teacher and building principal to resolve those issues. If the parent is not satisfied with the response at the building level, a committee consisting of parents, teachers, media specialists, and administrators will be assembled to review the concerns expressed by the parent using the Citizen's Request for Reconsideration of Materials Procedure. 
  
 Sincerely, 
  
 Robert Behnke 
  
 Assistant Superintendent for Instructional Services ||||| (Photo: Reuters/Bundesregierung/Steffen Kugler) Photos of Anne Frank at the Anne Frank House museum in Amsterdam in this 2011 file photo.March 23, 2011. 
  
 The Anne Frank Diary is 'pornographic' according to one mother who has lodged a formal complaint over the book being used in school to educate her own child. 
  
 Mom, Gail Horalek, has filed a formal complaint against her daughter's school district over its use of the Anne Frank Diary, saying that many of the passages contained in the book are far too graphic for seventh graders like her daughter. 
  
 The mother highlights one part of the book in which Frank discusses discovering her genitalia, and Horalek has said it is akin to pornography, and is completely inappropriate for her child and her schoolmates. 
  
 She has complained that Meads Mill Middle School should have asked parents to sign a permission slip before they assigned the book to the children to read, due to the content. 
  
 She has said, "The problem is the school is giving the seventh graders inappropriate material and not explaining it to the parents," according to the Northville Patch. 
  
 Horalek has explained that the school has sent permission slips home for parents to sign when they have looked to use various other books and films that may contain strong material that some could deem "inappropriate." 
  
 The mother said, "If they watch any kind of movie with a swear word in it, I have to sign a permission slip." 
  
 Other parents she has spoken to were unaware of the content in some of the passages, she claims. The mother admits that she only found out herself about the passages when her daughter came to her saying that she felt uncomfortable about the content of the book she was reading for school. 
  
 Horalek has now demanded that the book be removed from the curriculum: "It doesn't mean my child is sheltered, it doesn't mean I live in a bubble and it doesn't mean I'm trying to ban books." 
  
 The Anne Frank Diary in fact comes in different versions, with an uncensored version and a full version. Horalek's school district used the uncensored version. 
  
 In another incident in 2010, Culpeper County public school in Virginia stopped assigning the uncensored version due to some of the content in the full version of the diary. |||||