The next big issue in the national debate over guns _ whether people have a right to be armed in public _ is moving closer to Supreme Court review. 
  
 FILE - In this March 7, 2012 file photo, gun owners and supporters participate in an Illinois Gun Owners Lobby Day rally at the Illinois State Capitol in Springfield. The next big issue in the national... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Feb. 10, 2011, file photo, National Rifle Association Executive Vice President and CEO Wayne LaPierre speaks in Washington. The next big issue in the national debate over guns _ whether... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this March 7, 2012 file photo, gun owners and supporters participate in an Illinois Gun Owners Lobby Day rally at the Illinois State Capitol in Springfield. The next big issue in the national... (Associated Press) 
  
 A provocative ruling by a panel of federal appeals court judges in Chicago struck down the only statewide ban on carrying concealed weapons, in Illinois. The ruling is somewhat at odds with those of other federal courts that have largely upheld state and local gun laws, including restrictions on concealed weapons, since the Supreme Court's landmark ruling declaring that people have a right to have a gun for self-defense. 
  
 In 2008 the court voted 5-4 in District of Columbia v. Heller to strike down Washington's ban on handgun ownership and focused mainly on the right to defend one's own home. The court left for another day how broadly the Second Amendment may protect gun rights in other settings. 
  
 Legal scholars say the competing appellate rulings mean that day is drawing near for a new high court case on gun rights. 
  
 The appeals court ruling in Chicago came early in a week that ended with the mass shooting in Connecticut that left 28 people dead, including 20 children at an elementary school and the presumed gunman. 
  
 Laurie Levenson, a professor at the Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said that along with thorny legal issues, "we have the overlay of these tragedies hitting us on a somewhat regular basis." 
  
 The author of a book that traces the battle over gun control in the U.S. said he thinks Supreme Court intervention is likely in the short term. "Since the Heller case, the next great question for the Supreme Court to decide was whether there is a right to carry guns in public," said UCLA law professor Adam Winkler, whose book "Gunfight" was published last year. 
  
 Roughly 40 states make it easy for people to carry a gun in public. But in California, New York and a few other states, local and state regulations make it difficult if not impossible to get a license to carry a weapon. Illinois and the District of Columbia have been the only places to refuse to allow people to be armed in public. 
  
 "In some of our most populated states, the right does not exist either because it's completely forbidden or practically forbidden," said Alan Gura, the lawyer who won the Heller case at the Supreme Court. 
  
 Gun rights advocates and gun control supporters are as split over the issue of having guns in public as they were over whether the Constitution protected gun ownership at all _ and along the same lines. 
  
 Jonathan Lowy, an attorney with the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said, "If law enforcement makes a determination that somebody would increase the danger to the public by carrying a loaded gun on the streets, then that person should not be carrying a loaded gun. Some people in the gun lobby want to tie the hands of law enforcement." 
  
 But Wayne LaPierre, chief executive officer of the National Rifle Association, said, "Clearly, the individual right under the Constitution does not apply only to your home. People have lives outside their home and the constitutional right applies outside their home." 
  
 Sometimes, LaPierre said, "The only thing to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun." 
  
 Judge Richard Posner of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals employed similar reasoning in his majority opinion striking down the Illinois law. Posner said that threatening confrontations do not only or even principally occur at home. "A Chicagoan is a good deal more likely to be attacked on a sidewalk in a rough neighborhood than in his apartment on the 35th floor of the Park Tower," the judge said. 
  
 He homed in on the distinction between inside the home and on the street in his questioning of another recent appeals court ruling that upheld New York's restrictive law on granting people permits to carry concealed weapons. A unanimous panel of the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the requirement that people demonstrate a special need to carry a concealed weapon does not violate the Constitution. 
  
 "Our principal reservation about the Second Circuit's analysis is its suggestion that the Second Amendment should have much greater scope inside the home than outside simply because other provisions of the Constitution have been held to make that distinction," including the right to privacy that underlies the high court ruling striking down sodomy laws. "Well of course, the interest in having sex inside one's home is much greater than the interest in having sex on the sidewalk in front of one's home. But the interest in self-protection is as great outside as inside the home," Posner said. 
  
 In dissent, Judge Ann Williams said governments have a strong interest in regulating guns on the street. "It is common sense, as the majority recognizes, that a gun is dangerous to more people when carried outside the home. When firearms are carried outside the home, the safety of a broader range of citizens is at issue. The risk of being injured or killed now extends to strangers, law enforcement personnel and other private citizens who happen to be in the area," Williams said. 
  
 Gura represents the challengers to the New York law and he said he will ask the high court to review the 2nd Circuit ruling. Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan has not yet said whether the state will ask the full 7th Circuit court to reconsider its ruling or appeal to the Supreme Court. 
  
 So far, the Supreme Court has turned down appeals asking it to say more about guns. But that reluctance might fade if the court were presented with a split between appeals courts, typically a strong factor in attracting the justices' interest. 
  
 The Second Amendment talks about "the right to keep and bear arms and it's as if some courts want to take giant eraser to the words `and bear' and pretend that they're not there," said David Thompson, managing partner of the Cooper and Kirk law firm in Washington. Thompson represented some plaintiffs in the Illinois case. 
  
 Northwestern University law professor Eugene Kontrovich said the difference between the New York and Chicago courts over what it means to bear arms could be enough to persuade the Supreme Court to intervene. 
  
 Winkler, the UCLA professor, said he thinks the Illinois statute would fall if it were to put to a test at the Supreme Court, probably by the same 5-4 vote as in Heller. But it is hard to predict how the Supreme Court might rule on restrictions that fall short of an outright ban on the right to carry a loaded weapon in public for self-defense, he said. 
  
 "Public possession is a different issue than having a gun in your home," Winkler said. ||||| The nation is tentatively moving toward a new debate over increased restrictions on guns in the aftermath of the second-deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history on Friday. 
  
 And while legislating guns has gotten less and less popular in recent years, some are suggesting that the killings of 20 young children in Newtown, Conn., have so shifted the gun control paradigm that Congress can and should act now. 
  
 Below, we look at six people who would play a major role in that action, if it happens: 
  
 * President Obama: The president has so far approached the gun control issue with some caution, saying Friday that such discussions could wait and speaking only in broad terms about potential legislation during his public appearances since the tragedy. But the president has some political capital to burn right now, and his tone suggests somebody who thinks it's time for action. The question is how much of that political capital he is willing to spend it on such a difficult issue. Polls have consistently shown the American people moving against increased gun restrictions in recent years. Obama hasn't tipped his hand, but any effort to create new restrictions would almost surely need his full-throated support. 
  
  
  
 New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg (I) is perhaps the most powerful gun control advocate in the country. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images) 
  
 * Michael Bloomberg: The independent New York mayor was among the first to push for a debate about revamping the nation's gun control laws on Friday, and he has the added power of putting his (considerable sum of) money where his mouth is. Bloomberg spent millions of dollars through his super PAC in the 2010 election to support pro-gun control candidates of both parties, even defeating a pro-gun incumbent Democrat in Rep. Joe Baca (Calif.). A big reason both Republicans and Democrats balk at new gun control measures is because the National Rifle Association is hugely powerful and can play in a big role in a House race -- particularly in the primary -- and there's little in the way of a counterbalance. If gun control supporters believe Bloomberg and his allies might counter-act the NRA's influence, they might be more willing to stick their neck out. 
  
 * Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.): The California senator said Sunday that she will introduce a bill that would reinstate the assault weapons ban, a law that lapsed in 2004 and hasn't even made it to the floor of the Senate for renewal. She also led the effort to pass the original bill in 1994. She said in 2004 that the votes weren't there for a renewal, but she expressed optimism on Sunday that the bill could pass in the aftermath of the tragedy in Newtown. 
  
 * Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-N.Y.): No member of Congress has a closer personal connection to this issue, with the possible exception of Rep. Ron Barber (D-Ariz.), who was wounded in the shooting in Tucson in 2011. McCarthy's husband was killed and her son was badly injured when a man opened fire on a Long Island commuter train in 1993. The tragedy led McCarthy to become a gun control activist and eventually propelled her to Congress. If there's anyone who can make a personal appeal on this issue and can claim a real connection to the events in Newtown, it's McCarthy. And her testimony -- along with Barber's -- could be a big part of a gun control push. 
  
 * Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah): In order for any gun legislation to pass, at least some Republicans need to be on-board -- particularly in the House, but also likely in the Senate. Finding a standard-bearer for gun control in today's GOP, though, is a tough job. The reason we name Hatch is because he has played ball with gun control advocates in the past, including in aftermath of the tragedy at Columbine in 1999, and also because he's got a reputation for bipartisanship. Having survived a primary challenge this year, Hatch has said he won't seek another term in 2018 and thus has considerable political latitude right now. 
  
 * Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.): While it will be hard for any gun control bill to get GOP votes, it will also be very difficult to get votes from Senate Democrats who face reelection in red states in 2014. And they are legion. Sens. Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Mary Landrieu (D-La.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.) and Kay Hagan (D-N.C.) are all up in two years and will be very tough votes to get. And that doesn't include Democratic senators in pro-gun swing states like Mark Udall in Colorado and Jeanne Shaheen in New Hampshire. In fact, Reid himself comes from a pro-gun state, and his supporters actively sought the NRA's endorsement in his 2010 reelection bid. If those red state Democrats vote for a bill, it will be in large part because of Reid's leadership and because he took the leap with them. 
  
 Clinton suffers concussion, won't testify: Secretary of State Hillary Clinton sustained a concussion after fainting early last week, and she will therefore not be testifying this week about the attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi, Libya. 
  
 Clinton has been suffering from a stomach virus that has grounded her travel plans. Her concussion wasn't disclosed for at least a few days, though. 
  
 In her stead, Deputy Secretary of State William Burns will testify Thursday to the House foreign affairs committee. 
  
 As we wrote before, Clinton has largely escaped any political problems stemming from the situation in Benghazi, even as Susan Rice has seen her potential nomination to replace Clinton scuttled. 
  
 The chairwoman of the House foreign affairs committee, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.), said that Clinton will have to testify eventually. 
  
 Fixbits: 
  
 House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) has reportedly offered to allow tax cuts for the wealthy to expire if Obama agrees to significant entitlement reform. He has also offered to take the debt limit fight off the table for the next year. 
  
 Bloomberg keeps pushing Obama to act on gun control, saying it should be atop his list of priorities. 
  
 Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) wants a national commission on gun violence. 
  
 Gun rights advocates didn't have much to say on the Sunday shows yesterday. And one who did, Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), clarifies that he wasn't pushing for additional gun restrictions. 
  
 A new poll in Florida shows former governor Charlie Crist, who just recently became a Democrat, is the clear favorite to become that party's nominee for governor in 2014, topping 2010 nominee Alex Sink by double digits. 
  
 The Electoral College votes Monday, making Obama's reelection win official. 
  
 Former Massachusetts governor William Weld (R) doesn't sound like he would rule out being the GOP's backup plan if Scott Brown doesn't run in the likely special Senate election. 
  
 For what it's worth, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) can't run for both reelection and for president at the same time in 2016. While it would be legal in some states, it is not in Kentucky. 
  
 Must-reads: 
  
 "As Republicans ponder 2012 defeat, party’s philosophy hangs in the balance" -- Karen Tumulty, Washington Post 
  
 "The gun debate: Are the Newtown, Conn., killings a tipping point?" -- Chris Cillizza, Washington Post 
  
 "Chuck Hagel, John Kerry share similarities as expected Obama Cabinet nominees" -- Ann Gearan and Karen DeYoung, Washington Post 
  
 "Some tax hikes, spending cuts now seen as inevitable in January" -- Paul Kane, Washington Post 
  
 "A Political Brawler, Now Battling for Microsoft" -- Nick Wingfield and Claire Cain Miller, New York Times 
  
 "Republican Cash Held More Sway in State Contests" -- Nicholas Confessore and Monica Davey, New York Times |||||  
  
 Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy 
  
 Congressional Democrats showed signs on Monday of a more aggressive push on gun control in the wake of the Newtown killings, while Republicans and gun rights advocates remained largely silent on policy matters. 
  
 Joe Manchin III, the pro-gun-rights West Virginia senator who drew attention in 2010 after running a commercial that showed him firing a rifle at an environmental bill, said that “everything should be on the table” as gun control is debated in the coming weeks and months. 
  
 Representative John Yarmuth, a moderate Democrat from Kentucky, said he finally felt compelled to speak out on an issue that has been untouchable for many elected officials. 
  
 “I have been largely silent on the issue of gun violence over the past six years, and I am now as sorry for that as I am for what happened to the families who lost so much in this most recent, but sadly not isolated, tragedy,” Mr. Yarmuth said in a statement. “The National Rifle Association has spent untold millions of dollars instilling fear in our citizens and our politicians.” 
  
 He added, “I believe it is more rational to fear guns far more than the illusory political power of the N.R.A.” 
  
 And in a Twitter message sent out before a television appearance, Senator Mark Warner of Virginia called the episode a “game changer.” 
  
 The National Rifle Association has been largely silent since the shootings on Friday morning. On Monday, the home page of its Web site contained a blog post from Nov. 27, titled “More Guns, Less Crime in Virginia,” and the association’s Twitter account, which is normally active, has not sent a message since Friday. 
  
 It remains unclear whether any new legislation is likely to pass, especially given that Congress remains focused on budget matters for the time being. President Obama said at a memorial service that he planned to take executive action to reduce shootings, although he has not yet specified what that action might be. 
  
 Remarks on Monday from the two leaders of the Senate, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, and Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, underscored how difficult it will be to challenge the status quo. Both men, though far apart ideologically on most political issues, come from states where gun rights are especially cherished. And both made rather muted remarks on Monday. 
  
 Speaking from the floor of the Senate, Mr. Reid said the country was failing to keep people safe, though he did not go as far as his colleagues in calling for new laws. “As President Obama said last night, no one law can erase evil. No policy can prevent a determined madman from committing a senseless act of violence,” he said. “But we need to accept the reality that we are not doing enough to protect our citizens.” 
  
 Mr. McConnell entirely sidestepped the question of gun control, limiting his statement only to expressions of sadness and sympathy. “So we stand with the people of Newtown today and in the days ahead,” he said. “We can do nothing to lessen their anguish, but we can let them know that we mourn with them, that we share a tiny part of their burden in our own hearts.” 
  
 But the tone of the political debate does seem to have shifted, at least temporarily, after the shootings, which left 27 people dead, including 20 children. 
  
 Mr. Manchin, a Democrat and an avid hunter with an “A” rating from the National Rifle Association, indicated that he supported re-evaluating laws that permit people to have clips that hold dozens of rounds of ammunition and to own assault rifles. 
  
 “I don’t know anybody in the sporting or hunting arena that goes out with an assault rifle,” Mr. Manchin said, speaking on the MSNBC program “Morning Joe.” 
  
 “I don’t know anybody who needs 30 rounds in a clip to go hunting. I mean, these are things that need to be talked about,” he added. 
  
 While Mr. Manchin stopped short of saying what, if any, changes to gun laws he would support, his words amounted to one of the strongest signals yet that in the aftermath of the school massacre in Newtown, Conn., longtime gun rights supporters are taking a more measured approach to Second Amendment issues. 
  
 Gun control has been something of a third rail for many lawmakers, including Mr. Obama, who critics say has not pushed for any meaningful reforms. Any effort to rewrite gun laws in Congress would certainly be a complicated and difficult task. 
  
 But, as Mr. Manchin said on Monday, the Newtown shooting has caused many like him to pause and rethink the issue. 
  
 “Millions and millions of people are proud gun owners, and they do it responsibly,” he said. “Seeing the massacre of so many innocent children, it’s changed – it’s changed America. We’ve never seen this happen.” 
  
 The National Rifle Association’s political fund has praised Mr. Manchin for taking various steps to protect gun owners, like signing a law prohibiting the confiscating of guns during a state of emergency while he was governor of West Virginia. 
  
 In his comments on Monday, Mr. Manchin was careful to note that the dialogue would have to take place in a way that reassured the N.R.A. and others that their right to bear arms was not in jeopardy. He said he would be approaching the N.R.A. to discuss the issue soon. 
  
 “I’ll go over and sit down with them and say, ‘How can we take the dialogue to a different level?’” he said. “How can we sit down and make sure that we’re moving and not be afraid that someone’s going to attack our freedoms and our rights?” 
  
 Still, other prominent Democrats went further, calling outright for tougher laws. 
  
 Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, who is the chairman of a subcommittee on the Constitution and civil rights, said that he would hold hearings on Second Amendment rights. And Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, who was with the San Francisco city supervisor Harvey Milk in 1978 as he lay dying from an assassin’s bullet, said she would introduce legislation that would ban the sale and possession of large clips of ammunition and strips that hold more than 10 bullets. 
  
 Mr. Durbin wrote an article published by The Chicago Tribune on Monday in which he argued for new limits on weapons ownership. 
  
 “What will it take?” Mr. Durbin wrote, listing one by one the mass shootings that have occurred in the United States over the past few years. “What it will take is for the majority of Americans, and the majority of thoughtful gun owners and hunters, to agree that there must be reasonable limits on gun ownership and weapons.” 
  
 With passions running high after the Newtown massacre, Democrats said they anticipated a call from gun rights advocates to resist emotional calls to rewrite gun laws. And advocates for changes are certain to face a tough battle as they run up against one of Washington’s most powerful and well-financed lobbies. 
  
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York held a news conference on Monday with dozens of people who had lost loved ones to gun violence, at which he unveiled a video campaign and Web site demanding that Mr. Obama and Congress do something about guns. He gave a very specific list of demands, both for legislation and executive action, and repeatedly called out Mr. Obama for doing too little on the issue. 
  
 Top New York Democrats have also been vocal the need for tougher federal regulation of firearms. In Albany, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said he would make several gun policy proposals in his state of the state address next month. The governor, who was a strong advocate for gun control as secretary of housing and urban development in the Clinton administration, said that the state’s assault weapons ban has multiple loopholes that need to be addressed, but that action really needs to happen at the federal level. 
  
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York called for “a new paradigm” in the gun control debate and cautioned that proponents of tighter regulation needed to be mindful of the concerns of responsible gun owners as they pursued their cause, which has so often fallen short. 
  
 “First, those of us who are pro-gun-control have to admit that there is a Second Amendment right to bear arms,” he said. And the other side, he added, was being counterproductive by claiming “the left wants to take that hunting rifle your Uncle Tommy gave you when you were 15.” 
  
 Mr. Schumer was speaking Sunday on “Face the Nation” on CBS. Its host, Bob Schieffer, noted that he had invited Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee on the program to respond, but that all of them had declined. 
  
 Politicians, lobbyists and policy experts continued on Monday to discuss the prospect of new limitations on firearms, with stronger support and even some indications of softening opposition to gun control in the aftermath of the mass killing. 
  
 Joe Scarborough, the host of “Morning Joe” and a former Republican congressman from Florida who highlighted his support of gun rights, also made comments on the program calling for action from Washington on several fronts. 
  
 “The violence we see spreading from shopping malls in Oregon, to movie theaters in Colorado, to college campuses in Virginia, to elementary schools in Connecticut, is being spawned by the toxic view of a violent popular culture, a growing mental health crisis and the proliferation of combat-style weapons,” Mr. Scarborough said. 
  
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut who is about to leave Congress, was among those calling for restrictions on assault weapons, a position favored by many Democrats. He is also calling for a commission to look broadly at the problem of gun violence and its causes. 
  
 Mr. Lieberman repeated his views that assault weapons “were weapons created by the U.S. military for use in war.” 
  
 “When it comes to mental health, this is complicated,” he continued. “We’ve got to find a way to create a society in which those closest to people in trouble, mentally, acknowledge that” and help them secure assistance. 
  
 As for violence in the entertainment and video game industry, which Mr. Lieberman has also said may contribute to a culture of violence, he said, “I think we really do have to reopen the conversation and go back and ask ourselves, ‘Is there more we can do?’” 
  
 John H. Cushman Jr. contributed reporting from Washington. Thomas Kaplan and Danny Hakim contributed reporting from Albany. Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York. |||||