Media playback is not supported on this device
The Briton, 21, led after the second round with a personal best of 6.81m, but she was pipped to gold by France's Eloyse Lesueur who leapt out to 6.85m.
The men's 4x400m team also won silver, while the women's quartet and Andrew Osagie, in the 800m, won bronze as Team GB finished with six medals.
The Briton was promoted to third after Marcin Lewandowski was disqualified.
Team GB lodged a protest after Osagie noted that the Pole had stepped off the track during the race. Following a review, the Harlow athlete was declared the bronze medallist. Ethiopia's Mohammed Aman, 20, won gold and Poland's Adam Kszczot took silver.
In the women's 4x400m, Christine Ohuruogu had to hold off a strong challenge from Russia on the final leg to secure bronze for her team. The United States won the title by almost two seconds in 3:24.83, while Jamaica took silver.
And in the final race of the three-day competition, the men's 4x400m, Nigel Levine produced a fine run to stay ahead of Jamaica's Edino Steele on the final leg as Britain claimed silver. Their time of 3:03.49 was a season's best, but more than a second behind winners USA, who set a new world indoor record of 3:02.13.
"Six medals satisfies me," UK Athletics performance director Neil Black told BBC Sport. "This is a young developing team. Six is a strong basis for going forward."
Earlier, Johnson-Thompson - competing in the long jump after she was unable to qualify for her preferred event, pentathlon, because of illness - opened up with 6.69m, before eclipsing her previous best of 6.75m, set at the recent British championships, with 6.81m.
That gave her the outright lead and it appeared the Liverpool Harrier was set to pick up her first major international title, but 2012 European outdoor champion Lesueur went further on her fourth attempt.
Johnson-Thompson could not reproduce the form of the early rounds as France secured their first medal of the championships.
Bronze went to Serbia's Ivana Spanovic (6.77m), with Johnson-Thompson's team-mate Shara Proctor fourth with 6.68m.
"I can't believe I won my first medal in an event not my own," the Briton said. "It feels incredible. I came here with no expectations."
"I was winning at one point, but Lesueur was the best today. I couldn't respond to her 6.85m.
"I'm still very much a pentathlete-heptathlete. The heptathlon is what I want to concentrate on in the summer. The Commonwealth Games is my main focus and hopefully I'll do the long jump or high jump at the Europeans."
There was disappointment for Britain on the final day as Holly Bleasdale finished ninth in the pole vault.
The 22-year-old from Preston, who won bronze in 2012 and has a personal best of 4.87m, failed to clear 4.65m.
Team-mate Asha Philip was fourth in the 60m final, won by Olympic 100m champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce of Jamaica in 6.98 seconds.
Britons Andrew Pozzi and Will Sharman also failed to make the podium, finishing fourth and seventh respectively in the 60m hurdles final, which was won by American Omo Osaghae in 7.45 secs.
Ethiopia's Genzebe Dibaba, who set three world bests in a month earlier this year, won the 3,000m in 8:55.04, while Qatar's Mutaz Essa Barshim cleared 2.38m to clinch men's high jump gold on countback - his first major senior title.