On Media Blog Archives Select Date… December, 2015 November, 2015 October, 2015 September, 2015 August, 2015 July, 2015 June, 2015 May, 2015 April, 2015 March, 2015 February, 2015 January, 2015 
  
 An ugly incident in Tampa... 
  
 TAMPA, Fla. — An ugly incident at tonight's GOP convention, via TPM: 
  
 An attendee at the Republican National Convention in Tampa on Tuesday allegedly threw nuts at a black camerawoman working for CNN and said “This is how we feed animals” before being removed from the convention, a network official confirmed to TPM. 
  
 It goes without saying that neither the RNC nor the convention organizers are responsible for every delegate and attendee. But the incident does not reflect well on a party that has extremely little support from the African-American population. A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll found that 94 percent of African-Americans surveyed supported President Barack Obama, versus 0 percent — yes, 0 percent — who supported Mitt Romney. 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Race-baiting hooks 2012 campaign) 
  
 The RNC referred POLITICO to GOP convention spokesperson Kyle Downey for comment. 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Matthews repeats race charge) 
  
 UPDATE: GOP convention spokesman Kyle Downey tells POLITICO, "Two attendees tonight exhibited deplorable behavior. Their conduct was inexcusable and unacceptable. This kind of behavior will not be tolerated." ||||| Updated at 10:38 p.m. ET 
  
 An attendee at the Republican National Convention in Tampa on Tuesday allegedly threw nuts at a black camerawoman working for CNN and said “This is how we feed animals” before being removed from the convention, a network official confirmed to TPM. 
  
 The CNN official declined to confirm specific details of the incident to TPM but generally confirmed an account posted on Twitter by former MSNBC and Current anchor David Shuster: “GOP attendee ejected for throwing nuts at African American CNN camera woman + saying ‘This is how we feed animals.’” 
  
 It is not clear whether the alleged culprit was a delegate or attending the convention in some other capacity. 
  
 In a written statement, CNN addressed the matter but divulged few details: “CNN can confirm there was an incident directed at an employee inside the Tampa Bay Times Forum earlier this afternoon. CNN worked with convention officials to address this matter and will have no further comment.” 
  
 TPM’s calls to RNC and convention officials were not immediately returned. 
  
 Here is the original tweet from Shuster: 
  
 GOP attendee ejected for throwing nuts at African American CNN camera woman + saying “This is how we feed animals.” @ takeactionnews # TAN — David Shuster (@DavidShuster) August 29, 2012 |||||