It’s true about the lawsuit. Although I know my song wasn’t inspired by Creep, Radiohead feel it was and want 100% of the publishing - I offered up to 40 over the last few months but they will only accept 100. Their lawyers have been relentless, so we will deal with it in court. ||||| The singer-songwriter tweeted ‘it’s true about the lawsuit’, saying Radiohead are asking for 100% of the publishing royalties to her track Get Free 
  
 Radiohead are suing Lana Del Rey over her song Get Free, which they say bears similarity to their 1993 breakthrough hit Creep. 
  
 Del Rey tweeted: “It’s true about the lawsuit. Although I know my song wasn’t inspired by Creep, Radiohead feel it was and want 100% of the publishing – I offered up to 40 over the last few months but they will only accept 100. Their lawyers have been relentless, so we will deal with it in court.” 
  
 As it stands only Del Rey, along with co-writers Kieron Menzies and Rick Nowels, are credited on the track, taken from her album Lust for Life which topped the charts in the US and UK on its release in July 2017. Radiohead have not yet commented on the lawsuit. 
  
 Radiohead were themselves previously sued over the song by Albert Hammond and Mike Hazlewood, who claimed it bore resemblance to their song for the Hollies, The Air That I Breathe – the pair were added to the song’s credits and share royalties with the band. 
  
 Has pop finally run out of tunes? Read more 
  
 Del Rey is the latest in a string of high-profile artists to be accused of copying. Ed Sheeran settled out of court with a pair of songwriters after similarities were found between his song Photograph and the Matt Cardle song Amazing, and also retrospectively added the writers of TLC’s No Scrubs to the credits of his enormous hit Shape of You. Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne were added to the credits for Sam Smith’s Stay With Me in 2014, while in 2015 Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams were successfully sued by Marvin Gaye’s estate for $7.4m, after it was found that their Blurred Lines plagiarised Gaye’s track Got to Give It Up. ||||| Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
  
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Compare Lana Del Rey's Get Free and Radiohead's Creep 
  
 Pop star Lana Del Rey says she's being sued by Radiohead for copying their breakthrough single, Creep. 
  
 It was rumoured over the weekend that the British band were taking action over Get Free, the closing track of Del Rey's latest album, Lust For Life. 
  
 The singer then confirmed the news on Twitter, saying: "It's true about the lawsuit." 
  
 She said she'd offered Radiohead 40% of the publishing royalties, but their "relentless" lawyers wanted 100%. 
  
 "Although I know my song wasn't inspired by Creep, Radiohead feel it was and want 100% of the publishing," she said. 
  
 "I offered up to 40 over the last few months but they will only accept 100. Their lawyers have been relentless, so we will deal with it in court." 
  
 Del Rey also mentioned the legal action at her concert in Denver on Sunday night. 
  
 She told fans that "regardless of what happens in court", she stood by the song's message of rejecting negativity and embracing a more positive mindset. 
  
 "Those sentiments that I wrote, I really am still going to strive for them, even if that song is not on future physical releases of the record," she said. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Highlights of Lana Del Rey's performance at Radio 1's Big Weekend 2017 
  
 Musician Owen Pallett observed that Radiohead's allegations are most likely to be based on the chord progression in the song's respective verses. 
  
 However, he noted, the case might not be the result of "Radiohead sitting around feeling annoyed about a stolen chord progression, this just might be their lawyers being lawyers." 
  
 Interestingly, Radiohead themselves were successfully sued by The Hollies over Creep's similarities to The Air That I Breathe. 
  
 Albert Hammond and Mike Hazlewood are now listed as co-writers for the song, and split royalties with the band. 
  
 Radiohead have yet to respond to Del Rey's claims. 
  
 The US star is the latest high-profile artist to be accused of copying someone else's song. Ed Sheeran recently settled out of court with a pair of songwriters after similarities were found between his song Photograph and X Factor winner Matt Cardle's hit Amazing. 
  
 Mark Ronson and Bruno Mars added the writers of The Gap Band's Ooops Upside Your Head to the credits of Uptown Funk; while Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne were given co-writer status on Sam Smith's Stay With Me in 2014. 
  
 Most famously, Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams were successfully sued by Marvin Gaye's estate for $7.4m, after a jury ruled that Blurred Lines plagiarised Gaye's track Got to Give It Up. 
  
 Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. ||||| Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
  
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. |||||