UPDATED: Video emerges showing taser used by Tuscaloosa Police on UA student 
  
 Video has emerged of an apparent arrest of a University of Alabama student that ended in use of a taser and police club last night. 
  
 According to multiple sources, the incident took place at an apartment complex near Buffalo Phil's last night after police were summoned to respond to a noise complaint. 
  
 In the videos, a Tuscaloosa Police officer stands in the door of an apartment, speaking with several people located in the apartment. Many are filming the officer. The officer is asked multiple times whether anyone is being arrested or detained, and eventually indicates that one male is under arrest, but does not say under what charges. 
  
 The Crimson White reached out to the tased individual. He declined comment. 
  
 Multiple videos can be viewed here, here, here and here. 
  
 The Crimson White has reached out to the Tuscaloosa Police Department for comment. 
  
 If you have any information on this incident, please email editor@cw.ua.edu. 
  
 UPDATE: 
  
 The City of Tuscaloosa tweeted that videos of the arrest have been forwarded to internal affairs. 
  
 UPDATE: 
  
 The Tuscaloosa Police Department released a statement saying the incident occurred Nov. 8 at 3:19 a.m. and was a result of a loud music call. 
  
 "A full investigation of the circumstances that are depicted in these videos will be conducted and all appropriate measures taken to ensure the integrity of the Tuscaloosa Police Department in serving the citizens of Tuscaloosa," the statement read. 
  
 UPDATE(12:25 p.m., 11/09/15): 
  
 The University released a statement saying they are aware of the incident and are concerned for the welfare of all students, particularly those who were arrested. 
  
 "We have reached out to provide support to them, and we will continue to provide services they need," the statement read. 
  
 The statement confirmed that three UAPD officers responded to a TPD officer's call for emergency assistance. They are reviewing the officers' actions. 
  
 Students who have been impacted, the statement said, should call the University's Counseling Center at 205-348-3863. 
  
 UPDATE(3:14 p.m., 11/09/15) 
  
 In a press conference held at 2 p.m. Monday, TPD Chief of Police Steven Anderson confirmed that the department would be conducting an internal investigation into the events of the tasing incident on Saturday. 
  
 "There was a lot of video that came from the individuals that were inside the apartment, and several of the officers have body cameras, and so we're going over a lot of video footage and so it's gonna take us a while," Anderson said. 
  
 Three of the responding officers have already been placed on paid administrative leave in response to the event and will remain on leave until the completion of the investigation, Anderson said. He declined to name the three officers but confirmed that they were the officer who initially responded to the call and the officers who tased and clubbed the male individual in the video. 
  
 Anderson asked that the public be patient and allow the department to conduct the investigation. 
  
 "What I want [the public] to understand is that we've got a long way to go on this investigation," Anderson said. "Just because we've initially put three officers on administrative leave, by no means means that we're at the end of the investigation, we're done... We're going to be taking a look at the actions of each and every officer that responded to that location to determine if those officers are operating outside of our policies and procedures or outside of law, and that's what we feel like we need to do." 
  
 Anderson was unable to give details as to how many officers responded to the incident or how many were wearing body cameras. 
  
 UPDATE(5:40 p.m., 11/09/15) 
  
 Lt. Teena Richardson of the Tuscaloosa Police Department released a statement naming Matthew Gimlin Macia, 22, Brandon James Williford, 21, and Caroline Elizabeth Giddis, 22, as the students arrested in the incident. Macia is charged with obstructing governmental operations and resisting arrest, Williford is charged with obstructing governmental operations, harrassment and resisting arrest, and Giddis is charged with obstructing governmental operations and harassment. 
  
 UPDATE(11:19 a.m., 11/10/15) 
  
 Chief Steven D. Anderson of the Tuscaloosa Police Department released a statement naming Officer James Kent, Officer Phillip Champion and Officer Gregory Pimm as the officers placed on administrative leave pending further investigation into their actions. 
  
 "For the safety and security of the officers and their families only their names are being released at this time," the release read. ||||| TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (AP) — Three police officers were suspended with pay Monday after videos posted online showed officers using a stun gun and baton to break up a post-football game party and arrest three University of Alabama students. 
  
 This Nov. 8, 2015 photo provided by Tuscaloosa Police Department shows Caroline Elizabeth Giddis. Several police officers were suspended with pay Monday, Nov. 9, after videos posted online showed officers... (Associated Press) 
  
 This Nov. 8, 2015 photo provided by Tuscaloosa Police Department shows Brandon James Williford. Several police officers were suspended with pay Monday, Nov. 9, 2015, after videos posted online showed... (Associated Press) 
  
 This Nov. 8, 2015 photo provided by Tuscaloosa Police Department shows Matthew Gimlin Macia. Several police officers were suspended with pay Monday, Nov. 9, after videos posted online showed officers... (Associated Press) 
  
 Tuscaloosa police Chief Steve Anderson said he was "deeply disturbed" by what he saw in the videos and disappointed in the response of the officers, who were responding to a noise complaint. 
  
 The incident occurred at an apartment building about a block from Bryant-Denny Stadium, where Alabama defeated Louisiana State University a few hours before the arrests. Residents said fans celebrated into the early morning hours. 
  
 The videos, from varying angles, show a Tuscaloosa officer at the apartment's door, arguing for several minutes with occupants who refuse to exit. 
  
 "Please let go of him. You are illegally entering," one of the young men says while an officer tries to lead another person out of the apartment, located within yards of a row of off-campus bars popular with Alabama students. 
  
 The person gets away from the officer and goes back inside, and the officer follows him inside as voices get louder. 
  
 After nearly two minutes of discussion and arguing, officers enter the residence and drag out two young men and a screaming woman. An officer uses a stun gun on at least one of the men; another officer hits him repeatedly with what appears to be a baton. 
  
 Anderson told a news conference the officers on paid leave include one who used a stun gun on a student. The second officer hit a person with a police baton, and the third was the officer who responded to the initial call, the chief said. Their names haven't been released. 
  
 A police statement identified the three students as 21-year-old Brandon James Williford, of Collierville, Tennessee; and two 22-year-olds, Matthew Gimlin Macia, of John Creeks, Georgia, and Caroline Elizabeth Giddis, of Collierville, Tennessee. 
  
 All three are charged with obstructing governmental operations. Williford is also charged with harassment and resisting arrest; Macia also is charged with resisting; and Giddis is also charged with harassment. 
  
 Williford and Giddis did not immediately respond to email messages. An email address for Macia could not be found. 
  
 Officers were called on the noise complaint about 3:20 a.m. Sunday. Discarded beer cans, bottles and a pair of underwear still littered the building's walkways Monday afternoon. 
  
 Residents of the apartment building said partiers were out late celebrating Alabama's win when police arrived. 
  
 "We were downstairs when the first officer rolled up, and then they cut the music and everyone's like 'Oh, looks like they're about to tell us to shut it down,'" said Devin McDade, 22. 
  
 McDade said he and his friends were in another apartment on the second floor of the building and opened the door when they heard a commotion outside. 
  
 "We thought it was someone getting in a fight, then we just see all these cops yanking them out. As soon as we opened the door we heard the Taser going off," McDade said. 
  
 The university said three of its officers responded after a Tuscaloosa officer requested emergency assistance. The school said it was reviewing whether its officers acted properly and was offering unspecified services to students who were involved. ||||| Updated at 3:55 p.m. to include the names of the students and the charges they face. 
  
 Three Tuscaloosa police officers are on paid leave after they were seen using a Taser stun gun and baton on students during a noise complaint early Sunday morning in what the chief called a "black eye" for the department and the city. 
  
 Chief Steve Anderson today said more officers could be placed on leave as what promises to be an exhaustive and lengthy investigation continues. The officers placed on leave are the first officer to arrive on the scene, the officer who used the Taser on a student and the officer who used the nightstick, he said. 
  
 The first officer who arrived on the scene and was seen at the doorway in the multiple videos made public is an eight-year veteran. The officer who used the Taser has 12 years on the force, and the officer who repeatedly struck the student with the baton has two years on the TPD. 
  
 The officers' names have not been released. 
  
 Police were reportedly called to 12th Avenue Place Apartments on Frank Thomas Avenue about 3 a.m. Sunday on a noise complaint. What happened next is unclear, but multiple videos taken from both inside and outside of the apartment made their way across social media. 
  
 The video shows an officer talking to those inside the apartment at the front door, and those inside refusing to exit the apartment. The students questioned whether they were being arrested or detained, and whether the officers were within their rights to search the apartment. 
  
 Officers ended up going into the apartment. In one of the videos, one of the officers tells those inside the apartment to "Shut the (expletive) up." When told the incident was being videotaped, he replied, "I don't give a (expletive)." 
  
 At least a dozen officers quickly responded to the scene. A witness told AL.com the scene was chaotic. "They had a girl and two boys on the ground,'' she said. "They were all screaming and everybody was videoing it." 
  
 "It all happened extremely quickly, and I'm still shaken by the images that will forever be on my mind," said Patrick Weaver, a student who witnessed the events from a nearby apartment. "I've always been taught to respect authorities, but I believe that respect should be extended. 
  
 "I believe in professionalism, and I don't believe that those police officers displayed that when they were screaming profane statements at those involved and us that were just bystanders that observed this awful incident. It's very concerning and most UA students would agree that we are very anxious and nervous to be around police right now. I'm praying for all involved and that justice would be served regardless of who side that is that wins. There needs to be a revolution in how the public and the police officers in our country interact with each other," Weaver said. 
  
 One of the young men was taken outside the apartment and then hit with a Taser stun gun, and struck repeatedly with an officer's nightstick. Matthew Gimlin Macia, 22, of Johns Creek, Ga. was arrested on charges of obstructing governmental operations and resisting arrest; Brandon James Williford, 21, of Tennessee was arrested on charges of obstructing governmental operations, harassment and resisting arrest. Caroline Elizabeth Giddis, 22, of Tennessee was arrested on charges of obstructing governmental operations and harassment. All three are students. 
  
 The officers were from the Tuscaloosa Police Department and The University of Alabama Police Department. 
  
 Anderson released this statement Sunday night: "The City of Tuscaloosa and the Tuscaloosa Police Department have been made aware of videos regarding an incident that occurred on November 8, 2015 at 3:19 a.m. that were a result of a loud music call. A full investigation of the circumstances that are depicted in these videos will be conducted and all appropriate measures taken to ensure the integrity of the Tuscaloosa Police Department in serving the citizens of Tuscaloosa." 
  
 University officials released a statement on Monday: "We are aware of the incident and we remain very concerned about the welfare of all students who were there, especially those who were arrested. We have reached out to provide support to them, and will continue to provide services they need. We can confirm that three UAPD officers responded to a TPD officer's call for emergency assistance that morning, and we are reviewing their actions to verify they acted appropriately. We encourage other students who have been impacted by this matter to contact the university's Counseling Center at 205-348-3863." 
  
 At today's press conference, Anderson said he immediately ordered an investigation. "Needless to say, once I started watching watching it, I was deeply disturbed by what I saw,'' the chief said. 
  
 The police staff met first thing Monday morning. He said Internal Affairs investigators will review all of the video submitted to them from the incident, as well as body camera video from the officers on the scene. He said he didn't have an exact count of how many officers responded to the apartment, but said the majority were wearing body cameras. 
  
 He said police have already conducted some interviews, but added, "We've got a long way to go." 
  
 "We're going to take a look at each and every officer's actions,'' Anderson said. "We're going to do an open and honest investigation and be transparent." 
  
 "We take this very seriously. I take it very personally," he said. 
  
 Anderson said he's spent 21 years helping to make the Tuscaloosa Police Department one that is respected. "I don't want to see that reputation destroyed by a careless or sensesless act,'' he said. 
  
 The chief pleaded for patience. "This investigation does not move at the speed of the Internet,'' he said. "With a little bit of patience, we're going to get there. We're going to do everything we can to rebuild the public trust." 
  
 "Do not be afraid of calling the Tuscaloosa Police Department,'' he said. "Do we always get it right? No, but there's no need to fear us or fear our officers." 
  
 Anderson said if a police officer knocks on your door and you come to the door, it becomes a consensual contact. However, he said, "No the officer cannot just go in." 
  
 He said he plans to add more training for his officers, including how to deal with escalating confrontation and what is, and isn't, allowed under the Fourth Amendment. "I take it personal,'' he said. "I ask myself if as a leader, have I failed my department?" |||||