Matt McKeown, 52, from Plymouth, reached an average 70.4mph - breaking his previous record of 45mph - at Elvington Air Field in North Yorkshire.
He said he is submitting the evidence for Guinness World Records to ratify.
The shopping trolley was powered by a modified Chinook helicopter starter engine and a 250cc Honda engine. It is stabilised with go-kart wheels.
Following his previous record breaking attempt last month, Mr McKeown vowed to go faster and was invited to the Elvington World Wheelie Records Straightliners event on Sunday.
"It was the first time I've actually been scared driving that thing," he said.
"I was quite nervous going out, but when I realised how close I was to getting over 70mph as an average, I thought I'd have to push the boat out a bit and take a bit more of a risk and it paid off."
Mr McKeown has modified the shopping trolley since his last attempt to include an extra 250cc Honda engine, which works along side the original jet engine.
"I knew I could go faster, so it was actually quite frustrating before. This shows I'm true to my word," he said.
Describing travelling at over 70mph on the back of the trolley he said: "Everything about it gets very twitchy and unpredictable the faster you go, and the stability drops off dramatically, so going out there and pushing over 60mph on the first run, was very, very sketchy.
"I remember going out for the final run and thinking this could genuinely go very wrong and be quite painful. I was just pleased to get back to the pits in one piece."
The record attempt had to be carried out more than once and Guinness World Records will accept the average speed.
Mr McKeown is now submitting evidence of the attempt and hopes the record will soon be made official.
He said he will not be making any further world record attempts on the trolley, but is now turning his attention to a motorised wheelbarrow.
"We have done what we set out to achieve, gone faster than the national speed limit, that was the magic figure, 70mph," he said.