This photo provided by Papers of Abraham Lincoln project shows a note written by Abraham Lincoln. Historians believe they’ve unraveled the mystery of a cryptic note Lincoln penned that doesn’t identify... (Associated Press) 
  
 This photo provided by Papers of Abraham Lincoln project shows a note written by Abraham Lincoln. Historians believe they’ve unraveled the mystery of a cryptic note Lincoln penned that doesn’t identify... (Associated Press) 
  
 SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — The cryptic note penned by Abraham Lincoln identifies its recipient only as "my dear Sir" and has a small section carefully clipped out. 
  
 Who was he writing to and why was a key piece of information later removed so meticulously? 
  
 Historians believe they have unraveled the mystery and uncovered a bit of political intrigue in the process. 
  
 Researchers at the Papers of Abraham Lincoln project concluded Lincoln was writing to an ally to ask him to maintain a secret relationship with a political insider during the 1860 election campaign. 
  
 Lincoln asked his cohort to "keep up a correspondence" with the person, a phrase that gave researchers their best clue. They ran it through a searchable database of Lincoln's papers and found several matches. 
  
 One was in a letter to Lincoln from fellow attorney and Republican Leonard Swett of Bloomington, Ill. 
  
 The two men, it turns out, were conspiring to keep tabs on a New York political figure. The mystery note was Lincoln's response to Swett's letter, the researchers surmised. 
  
 "If you can keep up a correspondence with him without much effort, it will be well enough," Lincoln wrote to Swett. "I like to know his views occasionally." 
  
 Swett's earlier letter also had a clue about who the political insider was. It referred to "our friend TW of Albany," who researchers concluded was Thurlow Weed, a Republican newspaper editor and political boss of New York state. 
  
 Lincoln was seeking Weed's support in New York, even though Weed had been backing front-runner William H. Seward for the Republican presidential nomination. Lincoln got his way, ultimately winning Weed's support. Seward later became his secretary of state. 
  
 But Lincoln couldn't be seen as close to Weed during the campaign so he recruited Swett to be a secret go-between. That also explains why Swett clipped Tweed's name from Lincoln's note. 
  
 A New York City manuscript dealer recently contacted the Papers of Abraham Lincoln for help solving the riddle. 
  
 The group of researchers is trying to identify, transcribe and publish all documents written by or to Lincoln. Project Director Daniel Stowell said Saturday that solving the mystery behind the note points to the project's value. 
  
 "To be able to identify the date, recipient and subject of such a brief letter is a remarkable achievement," he said. ||||| Papers of Abraham Lincoln finds political motive behind cryptic note with missing section 
  
 March 8, 2014 
  
 SPRINGFIELD – The note is scrawled in Abraham Lincoln’s distinctive hand and carries his signature, but little else is clear. When was it written and to whom? What are the views that Lincoln wants to know more about? And, above all, why was a key name cut out of the note? 
  
 Historians at the Papers of Abraham Lincoln believe they’ve solved the riddle of this new Lincoln document. It was a note asking one of Lincoln’s allies to maintain a secret relationship with a notorious political insider during the election of 1860. 
  
 Manuscript dealer David Lowenherz of Lion Heart Autographs, Inc., in New York City recently contacted the Papers of Abraham Lincoln about the document, which says: 
  
 My dear Sir, 
  
 I thank you for the copy of [clipped section] If you can keep up a correspondence with him without much effort, it will be well enough. I like to know his views occasionally. 
  
 Yours in haste 
  
 A Lincoln 
  
 Learning more about the note required a close look at its language. The most distinct phrase is “keep up a correspondence.” A quick search of the database created by the Papers of Abraham Lincoln yielded a handful of documents with this phrase, not all written by Abraham Lincoln. One was from fellow attorney and Republican Leonard Swett of Bloomington, Ill. 
  
 Swett shared the details of a letter he had gotten from “our friend T W of Albany.” Swett ended by telling Lincoln, “I shall answer the above soon, and if you approve, try to keep up a correspondence during the Campaign. It may be questionable propriety sending this to you yet I can see no harm in it. I would how ever request you not to show it.” 
  
 “T W of Albany” refers to Thurlow Weed, the Republican newspaper editor and political boss of New York state. Less than a month earlier, Lincoln had won the Republican presidential nomination, stunning Weed’s candidate, front-runner William H. Seward. 
  
 Lincoln wanted – and ultimately got – Weed’s support in New York (and Seward got the job of secretary of state under Lincoln). But Lincoln couldn’t afford to be seen as close to Weed during the presidential campaign. Swett solved the problem by offering to play the intermediary to the East Coast insider, letting Lincoln receive political intelligence from the critical state of New York without having an open correspondence with Weed. 
  
 This political intrigue likely explains why Swett referred to Weed as “T W” and clipped Weed’s name from Lincoln’s letter. 
  
 The phrase “keep up a correspondence” was the key to linking these two letters and providing the approximate date, recipient, and subject of Lincoln’s note. It likely was written in the third week of June 1860 in response to Swett’s letter of June 13. Lincoln’s reply merely echoed Swett’s phrase about corresponding with Weed. 
  
 Why was Lincoln “in haste”? A quick review of The Lincoln Log: A Daily Chronology of the Life of Abraham Lincoln (www.thelincolnlog.org), also maintained and updated by the Papers of Abraham Lincoln, provides the answer. In the third week of June 1860, Lincoln received hundreds of visitors at his temporary office in the Illinois State Capitol and thousands of pieces of mail providing advice and asking for jobs and favors. 
  
 That Lincoln took the time, even “in haste,” to respond to Swett’s letter suggests the importance he placed on Weed’s political news from New York. 
  
 “This linkage once again demonstrates the value of the careful work of the Papers of Abraham Lincoln,” director Daniel W. Stowell said. “To be able to identify the date, recipient and subject of such a brief letter is a remarkable achievement.” 
  
 “It was only through the active, generous and committed efforts of the editors at the Papers of Abraham Lincoln that the mysteries of this unpublished Abraham Lincoln letter were solved,” said David Lowenherz, president of Lion Heart Autographs. “Without their assistance, my research would have wound up at a dead end.” 
  
 The Papers of Abraham Lincoln is a long-term documentary editing project dedicated to identifying, transcribing and publishing all documents written by or to Abraham Lincoln during his lifetime. The project is administered through the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum, a division of the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, and is cosponsored by the Center for State Policy and Leadership at the University of Illinois Springfield and by the Abraham Lincoln Association. ||||| Volunteers bring Lincoln papers into online age 
  
 Goal of presidential library project to transcribe letters is to make fact-finding easier for future researchers 
  
 While there's no shortage of books and grad school dissertations on Lincoln — treatises on him have become an industry in Springfield — doing the work presents a challenge. The source documents are handwritten letters more than 150 years old. Not exactly word search-friendly. 
  
 SPRINGFIELD — — On the third floor of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, a half-dozen regular volunteers spend hour after hour in cubicles typing away on aged computers, history buffs on a mission to make researching the nation's 16th president a lot easier. 
  
 So a group of historians has embarked on a yearslong project to make the words that came out of Lincoln's pen more searchable online. There's a lot to input. So far, the Papers of Abraham Lincoln project has collected more than 97,400 pages from Lincoln's court cases and other legal papers, another 20,275 papers from his time in Illinois and 77,325 presidential papers. 
  
 The letters are written by people from all walks of life: citizens asking for favors or voicing opinions about the war, little-known public officials giving advice, better-known figures like U.S. Sen. Stephen A. Douglas giving his own critiques and Gen. Ulysses S. Grant requesting more troops. 
  
 "This Lincoln project will give people a chance to read his words, those of his correspondents, and gain some insight into his life story," said Michael Burlingame, a noted Lincoln scholar and author based at the University of Illinois at Springfield. 
  
 The legal papers already are online. During the last two years, the Lincoln papers volunteers have transcribed 12,120 presidential documents. More than half of them have been done by Joan Walters, who was state budget director under Gov. Jim Edgar. Sometimes she spends 40 hours a week typing for the project. 
  
 On one computer screen is a handwritten document that's been scanned in. On another, the file where the letters are typed in. Sometimes the old computers make grinding noises. Volunteers get an award shaped like miniature versions of Lincoln's hat for every 1,000 letters they transcribe. Walters has earned six. 
  
 There's one missive she'll always remember. Lincoln, whose 205th birthday was Wednesday, earned nicknames like "The Railsplitter," "Honest Abe" and "The Great Emancipator." Walters got a glimpse of another of Lincoln's characteristics: vulnerability. 
  
 The letter in question dates to August 1864, when Lincoln saw his presidency potentially slipping away. "This morning, as for some days past," he wrote, "it seems exceedingly probable that this Administration will not be re-elected." 
  
 Lincoln went on to express his desire to help the next president save the union. Historians have long referred to the document as the "blind memorandum" because he asked his Cabinet to sign it without reading his words of doubt. 
  
 Not long after, though, Atlanta fell. The course of the war changed, and Lincoln won re-election. 
  
 "That was just so touching to read because it made me realize how dedicated he was to this country," Walters said. 
  
 Many of the legal and Illinois documents are kept in Springfield, said Daniel Stowell, the project's director. Most of the presidential letters, such as the blind memorandum, were scanned from originals found at the National Archives and the Library of Congress in Washington, but Stowell said some letters were found in attics, old trunks and basements across the country. |||||