We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? 
  
 Yes ||||| Two black men walked into a Starbucks in downtown Philadelphia on Thursday afternoon and sat down. Officials said they had asked to use the restroom but because they had not bought anything, an employee refused the request. They were eventually asked to leave, and when they declined, an employee called the police. 
  
 Some of what happened next was recorded in a video that has been viewed more than eight million times on Twitter and was described by the chief executive of Starbucks as “very hard to watch.” Details of the episode, which the authorities provided on Saturday, ignited widespread criticism on social media, incited anger among public officials and prompted investigations. 
  
 The video shows the men surrounded by several police officers wearing bicycle helmets in the Center City Starbucks. When one officer asks another man whether he is “with these gentlemen,” the man says he is and calls the episode ridiculous. 
  
 “What did they get called for?” asks the man, Andrew Yaffe, who is white, referring to the police. “Because there are two black guys sitting here meeting me?” ||||| Starbucks ceo: Reprehensible outcome in Philadelphia incident 
  
 Related: Video: A follow-up message from Starbucks ceo in Philadelphia 
  
 Dear Starbucks Partners and Customers: 
  
 By now, you may be aware of a disheartening situation in one of our Philadelphia-area stores this past Thursday, that led to a reprehensible outcome. 
  
 I’m writing this evening to convey three things: 
  
 First, to once again express our deepest apologies to the two men who were arrested with a goal of doing whatever we can to make things right. Second, to let you know of our plans to investigate the pertinent facts and make any necessary changes to our practices that would help prevent such an occurrence from ever happening again. And third, to reassure you that Starbucks stands firmly against discrimination or racial profiling. 
  
 In the coming days, I will be joining our regional vice president, Camille Hymes—who is on the ground in Philadelphia—to speak with partners, customers and community leaders as well as law enforcement. Most importantly, I hope to meet personally with the two men who were arrested to offer a face-to-face apology. 
  
 We have immediately begun a thorough investigation of our practices. In addition to our own review, we will work with outside experts and community leaders to understand and adopt best practices. The video shot by customers is very hard to watch and the actions in it are not representative of our Starbucks Mission and Values. Creating an environment that is both safe and welcoming for everyone is paramount for every store. Regretfully, our practices and training led to a bad outcome—the basis for the call to the Philadelphia police department was wrong. Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did. 
  
 We also will further train our partners to better know when police assistance is warranted. Additionally, we will host a company-wide meeting next week to share our learnings, discuss some immediate next steps and underscore our long-standing commitment to treating one another with respect and dignity. I know our store managers and partners work hard to exceed our customers’ expectations every day—which makes this very poor reflection on our company all the more painful. 
  
 Finally, to our partners who proudly wear the green apron and to customers who come to us for a sense of community every day: You can and should expect more from us. We will learn from this and be better. 
  
 Respectfully, 
  
 Kevin Johnson 
  
 ceo 
  
 Share ||||| Andrew Seidman covers politics in the Philadelphia region, focusing on power brokers. Previously, he covered New Jersey state government and politics. 
  
 Philly firefighter's book details 37 years of blood, pranks and the smell of death | We the People 
  
 Philly firefighter's book details 37 years of blood, pranks and the smell of death | We the People Jun 20 
  
 Stephanie Farr covers Philly Culture for the Philadelpha Inquirer, Daily News and Philly.com. She writes about the people, places, things, and ideas that make Philly and its suburbs weird, wild, and wonderfully unique. 
  
 Protestor Aurica Hurst, from West Philly, pours out coffee in front of Starbucks at 18th and Spruce Streets, in Philadelphia, April 16, 2018. Aurica and others are protesting the recent arrest by Philadelphia police of two African-American men inside this Rittenhouse area coffee shop. 
  
 Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson is in Philadelphia to, as he put it in an online statement, “offer a face-to-face apology” to two African American men who were arrested in a Center City Starbucks last week. 
  
 In addition to the two men, Johnson is set to meet with Mayor Kenney and Police Commissioner Richard Ross and other community leaders Monday, a spokeswoman for the Seattle-based company said. 
  
 Where those meetings will take place has not yet been disclosed 
  
 In an interview on Good Morning America, Johnson called the incident “reprehensible” and apologized. 
  
 >>READ MORE: Starbucks manager who called police has left company in ‘mutual’ decision 
  
 Protests in the meantime resumed at the Starbucks store at 18th and Spruce Streets, where the two men were arrested Thursday. Dozens of protesters occupied the store for a brief time Sunday. 
  
 On Monday morning, about 40 protesters, including City Councilmember Helen Gym, filled the Starbucks for noisy protest as four police officers watched from the rear of the store. 
  
 “Anti-blackness anywhere is anti-blackness everywhere, was one of their chants. 
  
 >>READ MORE: Latest updates on the Starbucks arrests 
  
 The men had been sitting at a table waiting for an acquaintance but had not purchased anything, violating a company policy, Ross had said Saturday in a video posted on Facebook. When they were asked to leave and refused, a store manager called police. Police took the men into custody in an encounter that was captured on video that went viral over the weekend, sparking national outrage, even among the most faithful Starbucks customers. 
  
 >>READ MORE: Need to catch up on the Starbucks arrests? Here’s what happened 
  
 Late Saturday night, Johnson said in an online statement that he wanted to meet with the men who were arrested to “offer a face-to-face apology” for the “reprehensible outcome.” 
  
 The men were handcuffed and arrested – though no charges were filed against them. 
  
 Protesters Sunday demanded the firing of the store manager who had called police and every Philadelphia police officer who participated in the arrest. About 75 people and at least two dozen uniformed officers attended the noon protest, organized by Black Lives Matter activist Asa Khalif. 
  
 Halfway through the demonstration that began outside, Khalif led protesters into the store as confused customers looked on. 
  
 “Today, today this space is now secure, secured by the people,” Khalif yelled through a bullhorn once inside. 
  
 >>READ MORE: Starbucks arrests put Philly police in national spotlight 
  
 He then said to the crowd: “Should we ask the racist manager to come out?” 
  
 “Come out, come out wherever you are,” one protester said. 
  
 Starbucks at 18th and Spruce streets Posted by Jenice Armstrong on Sunday, April 15, 2018 
  
 Starbucks regional vice president Camille Hymes was on location and spoke with Khalif and the crowd. She said the company “deeply regrets” the events that occurred but said the blame lies with Starbucks’ policies and not with the store’s manager. 
  
 “I know the question has come up in terms of whether or not the manager should be fired, and we take full responsibility,” Hymes said. “We put her in a position that did not allow her to be set up for success – or those two men.” 
  
 Protesters remained inside the store for about 10 minutes before peacefully leaving and continuing their rally outside. Among the demonstrators was Dell Merriwether, 60, of Center City, who held up an anti-Starbucks sign while drinking a cup of Wawa coffee. 
  
 “I feel it was an overreaction of the police. They could have bought the guys a cup of coffee [instead of arresting them] and we wouldn’t be here,” Merriwether said. “There’s injustice throughout the country, but to see it at home is hard.” 
  
 Melissa DePino, who posted the video of the men’s arrest, which has been viewed more than nine million times, also attended Sunday’s protest. 
  
 “It’s great, but I want it to be more,” she said of the video, which was shot by another customer. “I hope it’s more. I want it to keep going.” 
  
 Monday’s protest is scheduled for 7 a.m. to 10 a.m., according to a Facebook event page titled “Shut Down Starbucks” hosted by Philly REAL Justice and the Black & Brown Workers Cooperative. At least 180 people have already indicated they will attend and more than 1,000 have shown interest. 
  
 Lauren Wimmer, an attorney for the men who were arrested, did not respond to a request for comment Sunday. The men have not been publicly identified and Wimmer previously declined to provide their names. 
  
 We regret that our practices and training led to the reprehensible outcome at our Philadelphia store. We’re taking immediate action to learn from this and be better. A statement from ceo Kevin Johnson: https://t.co/kPav8bEeOX — Starbucks Coffee (@Starbucks) April 15, 2018 
  
 Khalif said he doesn’t accept Johnson’s apology and called Starbucks’ response “lukewarm” and “just about saving face.” Khalif brought sage to the protest, which he and other activists used to smudge the outside of the Starbucks “to reclaim this space because it is tainted with racism.” 
  
 Separate investigations into the episode are underway by the mayor’s office and the Philadelphia Police Department. Starbucks has launched its own investigation into its practices that led to this “bad outcome,” Johnson said in his statement. 
  
 “We have immediately begun a thorough investigation of our practices,” he wrote. “In addition to our own review, we will work with outside experts and community leaders to understand and adopt best practices.” 
  
 In a video posted to Facebook on Saturday, Ross, the police commissioner, said officers responded to a 911 call regarding a disturbance at the store about 4:40 p.m. Thursday, and were told the men had violated Starbucks policy by occupying a table without making a purchase. 
  
 In his statement, Johnson said of his company’s policy: “Regretfully, our practices and training led to a bad outcome – the basis for the call to the Philadelphia police department was wrong. Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did.” 
  
 >>READ MORE: Black men’s arrest at Philadelphia Starbucks prompts probes amid national outcry 
  
 Video of the episode shows at least six police officers responding to the Starbucks. They are seen putting the men in handcuffs and taking them into custody without resistance. Ross said that officers had asked the men to leave three times but that they refused and were subsequently detained. 
  
 @Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018 
  
 “These officers did absolutely nothing wrong,” Ross said. 
  
 A white man in the video who has been identified as Andrew Yaffe, a Philadelphia real estate investor, can be seen questioning an officer in the coffee shop about the arrest and says the men were waiting to meet him. 
  
 “What did they get called for, because there were two black guys sitting here, meeting me?” Yaffe asks in the video. “What did they do?” 
  
 The men were held in custody until 12:30 a.m. Friday, Wimmer said Saturday. Ross said they were released when authorities learned Starbucks was “no longer interested in prosecuting.” 
  
 Starbucks’ Johnson called the video “very hard to watch” and said “the actions in it are not representative of our Starbucks Mission and Values.” 
  
 He said he will be joining Hymes, the regional vice president, “on the ground in Philadelphia” to speak with partners, customers, community leaders and police. 
  
 “Most importantly, I hope to meet personally with the two men who were arrested to offer a face-to-face apology,” Johnson wrote in his statement. ||||| PHILADELPHIA – Mayor Kenney today released the following statement in response to the incident earlier this week at a Starbucks in Center City: 
  
 “I am heartbroken to see Philadelphia in the headlines for an incident that — at least based on what we know at this point — appears to exemplify what racial discrimination looks like in 2018. For many, Starbucks is not just a place to buy a cup of coffee, but a place to meet up with friends or family members, or to get some work done. Like all retail establishments in our city, Starbucks should be a place where everyone is treated the same, no matter the color of their skin. 
  
 “Starbucks has issued an apology, but that is not enough. I have asked the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations to examine the firm’s policies and procedures, including the extent of, or need for, implicit bias training for its employees. We are reaching out to Starbucks to begin a discussion about this. 
  
 “Commissioner Ross and his team have promised a review of their policies moving forward with regards to response to complaints like this. I believe a thorough review is fully warranted given the unfortunate outcome of this event, particularly at a time when our criminal justice reform efforts are focused on avoiding needless incarcerations.” ||||| Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Log In 
  
 Do you want to join Facebook? |||||