President Trump’s campaign organization Tuesday has filed for arbitration against friend-turned-enemy Omarosa Manigault Newman, claiming that she broke a 2016 nondisclosure contract by disparaging the president in her new book and revealing private talks from the ultra-secret White House Situation Room. 
  
 In New York, Trump campaign lawyers filed for arbitration to force the former star of “The Apprentice” to abide by the agreement they say she signed when joining the 2016 campaign. 
  
 According to a sample of the agreement provided to Secrets, she was required to keep proprietary information about the president, his companies or his family confidential and to never “disparage” the Trump family “during the term of your service and at all times thereafter.” 
  
 [More: Trump: Omarosa a 'dog,' a 'crazed, crying lowlife'] 
  
  
  
 LTo the many dozens of #journalists who called me, questioning @OMAROSA claim in her new book that @POTUS @realDonaldTrump took a note from me, put it in his mouth and ate it...I saw NO such thing and am shocked anyone would take this seriously. — Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) August 12, 2018 
  
  
  
 In a statement, a campaign official said, “Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. has filed an arbitration against Omarosa Manigault-Newman, with the American Arbitration Association in New York City, for breach of her 2016 confidentiality agreement with the Trump Campaign.” 
  
 The official added, “President Trump is well known for giving people opportunities to advance in their careers and lives over the decades, but wrong is wrong, and a direct violation of an agreement must be addressed and the violator must be held accountable,” added the official. 
  
 In her book, Unhinged: An Insider Account of the Trump White House, and especially on her controversial book tour on TV, she has turned on her former friend and employer, calling him unfit for office. She claimed he used racist language during the filming of “The Apprentice,” but insiders and Trump deny the claim. She has also revealed private conversations she had with Trump and others, including from the secret White House Situation Room, a potential violation of federal law. 
  
 [Trump: 'Apprentice' producer called to say there are no N-word tapes] 
  
  
  
 I’m in @Omarosa’s book on page 149. She claims to have heard from someone who heard from me that I heard Trump use the N-word. 
  
  
  
 Not only is this flat-out false (I’ve never heard such a thing), but Omarosa didn’t even make an effort to call or email me to verify. Very shoddy work. — Frank Luntz (@FrankLuntz) August 10, 2018 
  
  
  
 What’s more, she has played recordings of those secret discussions that the campaign said are covered by the nondisclosure agreement. 
  
 Trump, in tweets, as called her a traitor, wacky and nasty. 
  
 Typically, arbitration demands, like the nondisclosure agreements they address, are kept secret. The campaign’s legal move takes their fight to a whole new level and could wipe her out financially. 
  
 While Manigault Newman has claimed that she did not sign a nondisclosure as part of her White House work or in exchange for a 2020 campaign job that did not materialize, her signing of the agreement during her 2016 campaign work remains in force because it is with the same campaign organization and never went out of force, said the campaign. 
  
 “The campaign is holding her accountable for the 2016 nondisclosure,” said a Trump ally. 
  
 An official said on background that Manigault Newman has made “egregious” violations of the agreement and as a result they are seeking millions of dollars in retaliation. As the case unfolds, they might also seek any “ill-gotten profits” she has received from the book, including her fee for writing it. 
  
 In an arbitration, which both sides agreed to in the nondisclosure agreement, each agree to an arbitrator, often a retired judge, who will hold a hearing and consider evidence. In the end the arbitrator will dismiss the case or issue a penalty. It has the full force of law. Typically the arbitration process moves faster than in a court. 
  
 Manigault Newman has 14 days to respond to the Trump campaign’s demand for arbitration. 
  
 The media has noted that nondisclosure agreements were common in the Trump organization, as they are in many businesses. And administration aides said that White House officials were also required to sign one. 
  
 Often described as the “villain” on Trump’s TV show, “The Apprentice,” Manigault Newman has remained part of the president’s world for years. She was in the first season of the show. He brought her into the White House as a community liaison but several aides said she was a disruptive force who did not help the president much. 
  
 She drew controversy when she brought her bridal party into the White House for a tour. Axios called her time inside the West Wing a “reign of terror.” 
  
 [Opinion: Omarosa's nondisclosure agreement could give her criminal or legal problems] 
  
 Editor's note: The headline and the first paragraph in this story has been updated to clarify that arbitration, not a lawsuit, has been filed. ||||| Apprentice contestant turned White House aide Omarosa Manigault- Newman says her former boss, President Donald Trump is trying to "silence" her. 
  
 Interested in Donald Trump? Add Donald Trump as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Donald Trump news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest 
  
 Her latest comments come on the heels of his campaign filing arbitration against the reality TV star on Tuesday morning in New York for allegations that she violated her non-disclosure agreement with the Trump campaign. 
  
 "I don't believe that I have violated, but I will leave it to the lawyers to sort it out," she told MSNBC. "It is interesting that he is trying to silence me. And what is he trying to hide or (is) afraid of? If he had not said anything that is derogatory or demeaning to African-Americans and women, why would he go to the extent to shut me down?" 
  
 In a statement to ABC News, a senior Trump campaign official confirmed to ABC News the: “Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. has filed an arbitration against Manigault-Newman with the American Arbitration Association in New York City, for breach of her 2016 confidentiality agreement with the Trump Campaign. President Trump is well known for giving people opportunities to advance in their careers and lives over the decades, but wrong is wrong, and a direct violation of an agreement must be addressed and the violator must be held accountable.” 
  
 Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
  
 Like all employees of the Trump presidential campaign, Manigault-Newman was required to sign a non-disclosure agreement. That agreement, as described by a source familiar with its contents, tells ABC News it sought to protect the president, the Trump family, Trump Organization. 
  
 In her new book, “Unhinged”, Manigault-Newman says she was offered a position in the Trump 2020 re-election campaign but was asked to sign another non-disclosure agreement. A source familiar with that agreement tells ABC News the difference between the previous agreement she signed and the new one was that this new agreement included Vice President Mike Pence and his family. 
  
 ABC News has reached out to Manigault-Newman for response. |||||