A teenage girl from Chicago who has been charged with killing an Uber driver randomly attacked the man with a knife and a machete that she had just stolen from Walmart, authorities say. 
  
 Eliza Wasni, 16, kept her eyes mostly to the floor Wednesday afternoon as a Cook County judge ordered her held without bail in the killing of Grant Nelson of Wilmette — an act prosecutors called "heinous" and "not provoked in any manner." 
  
 Prosecutors said Nelson, 34, had picked up Wasni early Tuesday a few blocks from a Walmart in Skokie and, minutes into the ride, near the corner of Touhy and Lincoln avenues in Lincolnwood, she began stabbing him. 
  
 He managed to pull over his Hyundai and run to a nearby condominium building lobby, where he pushed buzzers and yelled, "Help me, help me. I'm going to die," Assistant State's Attorney Michelle Cunningham said. 
  
 Wasni took off in Nelson's car but quickly struck a median and then ran off on foot, Cunningham said. She was found nearby wearing just a bra and leggings; a bloodstained Chicago Cubs shirt was found nearby, and a trail of blood led responding officers to the condominium lobby and then to the seriously injured Uber driver, Cunningham said. 
  
 Alexandra Nelson, sister of victim Grant Nelson, speaks to reporters May 31, 2017, after a hearing at the Skokie courthouse. Assistant State’s Attorney Michelle Cunningham gave a detailed account of the machete and knife attack. (Chris Walker / Chicago Tribune) Alexandra Nelson, sister of victim Grant Nelson, speaks to reporters May 31, 2017, after a hearing at the Skokie courthouse. Assistant State’s Attorney Michelle Cunningham gave a detailed account of the machete and knife attack. (Chris Walker / Chicago Tribune) SEE MORE VIDEOS 
  
 Police were able to use the Uber app on his phone to see that "Eliza" was the name of his most recent customer, the prosecutor said. 
  
 She called Nelson a "random victim." 
  
 Nelson, who attended New Trier High School in Winnetka and the University of Colorado at Boulder, described his attacker to police but died later at a nearby hospital, officials said. 
  
 Surveillance footage from Walmart showed Wasni walking around the store with a knife and machete and then leaving without paying for them, the prosecutor said. 
  
 She said Wasni had taken two earlier Uber rides the evening before, including one to Des Plaines and another from Des Plaines to Walmart. She was apparently in violation of the ride-sharing company's terms and conditions, which say customers must be at least 18 years old. 
  
 Wasni spoke during the bond court hearing only to confirm her name. Her lawyer, a public defender, said the teen attends Taft High School in Chicago and lives with a single mother. 
  
 Wasni has been charged as an adult with first-degree murder. Judge Michael Hood ordered her to be held without bail and called the crime "extremely violent." 
  
 An official with the Cook County sheriff's office said Wasni will be held in a juvenile facility. 
  
 Outside the courtroom, Nelson's brother, Todd Nelson, called him "the most gentle, kind person. He never hurt anyone. He was good to animals, he was good to children." 
  
 Todd Nelson photo Grant Nelson, shown in a family photo, was working for Uber when he was fatally stabbed while dropping off a passenger in Lincolnwood, according to police. Grant Nelson, shown in a family photo, was working for Uber when he was fatally stabbed while dropping off a passenger in Lincolnwood, according to police. (Todd Nelson photo) (Todd Nelson photo) 
  
 Grant Nelson, his brother said, loved opera and classical piano and was a "very good" piano player. He had also previously worked at Di Pescara restaurant in Northbrook, a manager there confirmed. 
  
 "He was just trying to do the best he could in life," Todd Nelson said. 
  
 His sister, Alexandra Nelson, added that the family hopes "justice will happen," calling the attack "horrifying and maddening." 
  
 The siblings, as well as their parents, were in the courtroom during the hearing. Alexandra Nelson sat behind her father with her hand on his shoulder as a description of the alleged crime was read by the prosecutor. 
  
 Family members sobbed at times during the proceedings, including when officials described Grant Nelson begging for help in the lobby before he was found on the ground outside in a pool of blood with multiple stab wounds on his right side. 
  
 An Uber spokeswoman issued a statement Wednesday saying the company is "heartbroken by the loss of one of our partners, Grant Nelson. Our deepest sympathies and prayers are with his family and loved ones during this incredibly difficult time." 
  
 Regarding the company's 18-and-older age restriction for customers, the spokeswoman later explained that a rider's access to the service can be removed if the rider is found to be underage, and that there is a mechanism for drivers to report riders if they suspect them of being younger than 18. 
  
 The spokeswoman said Uber has safety tips for drivers and riders, developed with the assistance of law enforcement agencies. She also said that drivers are encouraged to contact local authorities if they ever feel unsafe, and that the app has a two-way feedback system that is monitored around the clock by a team that investigates any problems that are reported. 
  
 Grace Wong is a Tribune reporter; Susan Berger and Brian L. Cox are freelance reporters. Chicago Tribune's Nereida Moreno contributed. ||||| LINCOLNWOOD, Ill. (AP) — The Latest on charges filed against teenager in death of Uber driver. (all times local): 
  
 3:15 p.m. 
  
 Prosecutors say a teenage girl used a stolen machete and a knife during a fatal attack on a suburban Chicago Uber driver. 
  
 Eliza Wasni is charged as an adult with first-degree murder in the death of Grant Nelson of Wilmette. A Cook County judge on Wednesday ordered the 16-year-old Wasni of Chicago held without bond. 
  
 Assistant State's Attorney Michelle Cunningham says the 34-year-old Nelson picked up the girl near a Walmart in Skokie, from which she stole the machete. Within minutes, she was attacking Nelson. He managed to stop his car and run into a condominium building lobby where he sought help. 
  
 Cunningham says Wasni drove off in Nelson's car, struck a median and then ran off. She was apprehended moments later after removing a bloody shirt. 
  
 Authorities say Nelson was able to describe his attacker to police before dying at a nearby hospital. 
  
 A public defender would only say Wasni attended a Chicago high school and lives with a single mother. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1:26 p.m. 
  
 Authorities say a 16-year-old girl has been charged as an adult with first-degree murder and accused of stabbing her Uber driver to death in suburban Chicago. 
  
 Lincolnwood police say they responded to a report of a man screaming for help at about 3:20 a.m. Tuesday when they found 34-year-old Grant Nelson of Wilmette with multiple stab wounds. They say Nelson told them he was a driver for the ride-sharing service Uber and that his passenger stabbed him. Police say they located Eliza Wasni near the crime scene in possession of two weapons they believe she used in the stabbing. 
  
 Nelson died later at a nearby hospital. The Cook County state's attorney's office says Wasni is scheduled to appear in bond court Wednesday afternoon in Skokie. ||||| Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 LINCOLNWOOD, Ill. -- A 16-year-old girl was captured on Walmart surveillance video "walking nonchalantly throughout the store" holding a knife in one hand and a machete in another. 
  
 Authorities say Eliza Wasni used those weapons kill her Uber driver in Lincolnwood. 
  
 That's just one of the details that Cook County State's Attorney Michelle Cunningham revealed in a news conference Wednesday after Wasni appeared in court on first-degree murder charges. She is being held without bond for killing Grant Nelson, 34, of Wilmette. 
  
 According to Cunningham, Wasni was picked up by the first of three Uber drivers at about 1:25 a.m. Tuesday. She was driven to a train station in Des Plaines. 
  
 At 2:18 a.m., a second Uber driver took her from Des Plaines to a Walmart located at 3606 Touhy. That's when Cunningham says the teen removed a knife and a machete from their packaging at the store and walked around holding them. 
  
 Then she left Walmart with the knife and machete, without paying, and was not stopped by any personnel, Cunningham said. 
  
 The third Uber driver, Nelson, picked up Wasni in his Hyundai Sonata a few blocks west of the Walmart. About two minutes after Wasni got in the car, Cunningham says Nelson was stabbed by Wasni from the backseat. Cunnningham says Nelson was able to maneuver his car into a condo apartment building driveway near Lincoln and Touhy. Cunningham said he got out of the car and was heard banging and screaming at the lobby door saying "Help me! Help me! I'm going to die!" That's when residents called 911. 
  
 Cunningham says Wasni tried to flee in Nelson's vehicle but she hit a median near the scene. Officers say she left the car, which was covered in blood, running in the middle of Lincoln Avenue and fled on foot. 
  
 Cunningham says police found Nelson laying in the grass near the scene. He told officers that he was an Uber driver and that his white, female passenger had attacked him. He was then transported to an area hospital where he later died from his injuries. 
  
 According to Cunningham, another group of officers later found Wasni crouched behind an office building's air conditioning unit not too far from the scene. She had the machete in one hand and a knife in another. When she wouldn't drop the weapons at the officers' requests, one of the officers tazed her and she was taken into custody. 
  
 Autopsy results of the victim are still pending. 
  
 Please enable Javascript to watch this video |||||