'Doomsday' catastrophe predicted for Thursday, we debunk 
  
 4206 views 
  
 Find Your Forecast Search by city or zip code 
  
 Scott Sutherland 
  
 Meteorologist/Science Writer 
  
 Wednesday, May 27, 2015, 4:01 - Doomsday scenarios keeping you up at night? Here's a quick guide to whether or not you really need to worry about them. 
  
 Every time we turn around, there seems to be yet another doomsday scenario that's supposed to play out - be it a planetary alignment, asteroid impact or even a planet wandering through our solar system. 
  
 The people reporting these scenarios seem to be pretty sincere about the threat, so how do we know if we need to worry? 
  
 A very quick guide for this is simply the fact that there have been countless prophecies of doom from the skies over the years, and yet we're still here. 
  
 Take, for example, the two most prolific doomsday messages currently on the internet: 
  
 May 28 "Planetary Alignment" 
  
 A video on YouTube, entitled Global Coastal Event on May 28, 2015, is reporting that an apparent planetary alignment between the Sun, Mercury and Saturn (along with two other alignments that are supposed to augment its effects) will align directly between the Earth and the Moon on Thursday, May 28. 
  
 Quoting Nostradamus, who wrote in one of his quatrains of a "mighty trembling" in May and mentioned Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury, Venus and Mars in specific constellations, the video suggests that this alignment is supposed upset the balance between the Earth and Moon, and heralds a magnitude 9.8 earthquake on the west coast of the United States. 
  
 Here's the view that is presented in the video, using the online simulator Solar System Scope, with an arrow in the same position as in the video, denoting this supposed alignment. 
  
  
  
 Credit: Solar System Scope, with edits by author. 
  
 It certainly looks legitimate, however note the circled portion of the simulator to the left. This particular view of the solar system exaggerates the size of the planets, just to make them stand out against each other better. 
  
 Below is the exact same view, switched to the "Realistic" view: 
  
  
  
 Credit: Solar System Scope, with edits by author. 
  
 STORM TOOL KIT: Be prepared for severe weather with The Weather Network's online essentials: ALERTS | LIVE RADAR | UPLOAD PHOTOS/VIDEOS | LATEST NEWS | FOLLOW ON TWITTER 
  
 As you can see, the Earth moves far off the line of that alignment, so that it's not even close. Also, the size of the Moon's orbit is exaggerated in the "Large" view as well, so much so that in the "Realistic" view, the orbit can't even be picked out from the tiny dot that represents Earth. 
  
 So, there is no planetary alignment between the Sun, Mercury and Saturn on that day (note that even the Sun also moves out of alignment once the "Realistic" view is used) and even if there was, the alignment wouldn't include Earth or the Moon. 
  
 Also, try going to Solar System Scope and test out other "alignments" from the video - especially the claim that an alignment between Mars and Mercury passing directly between the Earth and the Moon on April 25 influenced the Nepal earthquake on that date. Switching between "Large" and "Realistic" sizes also removes Earth and the Moon from being anywhere near that alignment. 
  
  
  
 Credit: Solar System Scope, with edits by author. 
  
 There's are a few deeper, more fundamental problems with the claims in the video, though. 
  
 First, quoting from Nostradamus is highly suspect. The quatrains in any English version of The Prophecies depend on inexact translations, meaning that different translators can get different final messages and thus different interpretations. Also, these "prophecies" are highly subjective, meaning different things for different people and so vague that they can be related to very different real world events (and only then, after the fact). Add to this the false quatrains that were constructed after events (like those that supposedly describe the September 11, 2001 attacks) - simply as a joke or even as an attempt to "prove" the validity of his writings - and taking anything Nostradamus wrote down as any herald of the future is not recommended. 
  
 Second, and perhaps more importantly, a planetary alignment - no matter which, or how many, planets were stacked up "against us" - is simply not capable of causing an earthquake. The forces involved are just too weak. If they really were capable of having that effect on Earth, the forces exerted by the Moon - which are many times stronger than all the other planets put together - would cause untold devastation across the surface of the planet as it circled around. 
  
 It is true that some studies have found that the Moon can cause a tiny increase in probability of certain kinds of earthquakes, due to its influence on the tides. However, the weak correlation was only with quakes along faults where one tectonic plate slips under another. The west coast of the US is on a fault where two plates slide back and forth against one another. 
  
 So, since there's no alignment at all and even if there was the forces involved would be too weak to significantly affect the Earth, there's no threat here. 
  
 Sept 24, 2014 "Impact" 
  
 Another rumor being spread around at the moment says that on (or perhaps around) Sept 24, 2015, a well-known asteroid or comet – which, according to some, measures about 2.5 miles wide and is emitting "hellish" noises – is apparently going to strike the Earth. 
  
 While that would certainly be a devastating event, the details just don't add up for this either. 
  
 The only known asteroid flying by Earth on that day is a 656-ft wide rock named 2012 TT5. However, as this view of the asteroid's orbit compared to Earth and the Moon shows, the closest it gets is over 5 million miles away, or over 21 times farther away than the Moon. 
  
  
  
 Courtesy: Celestia, with edits by author. 
  
 The details being reported about the object in question – the size and reports that it's making noises – match some of the details of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko - the comet currently being orbited by the European Space Agency's Rosetta spacecraft. 
  
 The larger of the two "lobes" of this duck-shaped comet is 2.5 miles across, and last November, the Rosetta science team did report that the comet sings, however that's as close as the claims get. 
  
 According to the video, someone "in the know" has told the person that the information being reported on the object, specifically about its orbit, is incorrect. However, this kind of information is not gathered and disseminated by just one agency, be it NASA, the ESA or whatever. There is a network of thousands of amateur and professional astronomers, all around the world, that make observations every night and report on objects - both known and newly discovered - and it's these observations that go into the databases of NASA and other agencies. With so many people involved, there would be no point in misrepresenting or misreporting an object's orbit. Maintaining some kind of "conspiracy" would be impossible. 
  
 The fact here is that the orbit of Comet 67P is very well known, as astronomers have watched it swing around the Sun every 6.5 years or so, since it was discovered in September of 1969. The comet never crosses Earth’s orbit, ever, and the closest it gets to us in 2015 is over 164 million miles away, or 1.768 times the distance between the Earth and the Sun. 
  
  
  
 Credit: European Space Agency, with edits by author. 
  
 So, neither of these object are threats to us. 
  
 "Planet X" or "Nibiru" 
  
 If there’s one object that claims the most doomsday reports, it's Nibiru or Planet X. 
  
 It has become the proverbial "Wolf" to cry out about, whenever a new object appears in our skies. However, despite the claims made about this object, there is no evidence for its existence. 
  
 There may be planets beyond the orbit of Neptune and Pluto, perhaps something a few times larger than the Earth (a Super-Earth), as some astronomers have noted the unusual orbits of dwarf planets Sedna and 2012 VP113. NASA's WISE infrared telescope has found no evidence of anything larger, out to around 600 times the distance between the Earth and the Sun. So, the chances of a large planetary object (as Nibiru is reported as being nearly the size of Saturn) existing are quite remote. 
  
 The Problem with Hoaxes 
  
 Space is dangerous. There are plenty of objects out there that could cause catastrophic damage to our planet. There are people, offices, agencies and corporations that have dedicated themselves to discovering these objects and protecting the Earth, and this is a very important mission to undertake. 
  
 The problem with people spreading hoaxes (however well-intentioned they may be), is that the public may become so desensitized that they discount its importance when it really counts - such as when the government tries to fund a planetary defense project, or even when a real asteroid or comet threat looms. 
  
 Sources: NASA | Solar System Scope | USGS | Space.com 
  
 Follow Scott Sutherland on Twitter ||||| An earth-shattering 9.8 earthquake is coming this week! At least according to your weird uncle’s Facebook page. The Big One is supposed to hit this Thursday, May 28th, thanks to a planetary alignment predicted by Nostradamus and some random guy in the Netherlands. Except that it’s all bullshit. 
  
 The video below already has over half a million views, and if I dare make a prediction of my own, it will get plenty more between now and Thursday. The video was produced by Ditrianum Media, which appears to be a lone guy in the Netherlands named Frank who’s fascinated with 9/11 conspiracy theories and believes that a spirit of some sort is talking with him. 
  
 Update May 28th, 07:32 AM: Still no earthquake. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Update May 28th, 07:46 AM: My wife thought she felt an earthquake but it was probably just a passing truck, which actually happens a lot in our apartment. This place is going to be a crumbling death trap when that 9.8 hits. 
  
 Update May 28th, 08:13 AM: No earthquake yet. 
  
 Sponsored 
  
 Update May 28th, 08:29 AM: It’s pretty overcast here in Los Angeles this morning but it’s hard to tell if that’s because it’s the start of “June Gloom” or because a 9.8 earthquake is about to break California off from the continental United States and send us all tumbling into the ocean. 
  
 Update May 28th, 09:00 AM: Zero quakes. 
  
 Update May 28th, 09:58 AM: Still no Big One, though I’m sure it’s just a matter of time. 
  
 Update May 28th, 10:43 AM: No earthquakes to report. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Update May 28th, 10:44 AM: No earthquakes to report. 
  
 Update May 28th, 11:19 AM: No rumbles yet, but Gawker Media is currently debating in public the pros and cons of joining a union, which is kind of like Kinja’s version of an earthquake if you think about it. 
  
 Update May 28th, 11:33 AM: Still nothing. 
  
 Update May 28th, 12:02 PM: Nothing yet. 
  
 Update May 28th, 12:12 PM: I mean, what even is an “earthquake” if you think about it? 
  
 Update May 28th, 01:25 PM: No quake. 
  
 Update May 28th, 01:51 PM: The L.A. area hasn’t had even a minor earthquake in over 9 hours. It’s quiet. Too quiet. 
  
 Update May 28th, 02:26 PM: Still. No. Earthquake. I’m starting to wonder if it’ll ever earthquake again. Is this the end of earthquakes? Have we eradicated them forever? RIP earthquakes. 
  
 Update May 28th, 02:59 PM: No earthquakes to report. 
  
 Update May 28th, 03:11 PM: Nothing yet. What if Nostradamus didn’t have psychic abilities after all? 
  
 Update May 28th, 03:17 PM: No quake. 
  
 Update May 28th, 03:26 PM: Still nothing. 
  
 Update May 28th, 04:14 PM: Strangely, we’ve had zero earthquakes so far today. 
  
 Update May 28th, 04:38 PM: No earthquakes to report. 
  
 Update May 28th, 06:08 PM: No earthquakes to report. 
  
 Update May 28th, 08:04 PM: I got nothing. 
  
 Update May 28th, 08:05 PM: Seriously, is this thing going to happen, or what? 
  
 The narrator of the video explains his revelation: 
  
 The 12th of August, 2013, I received an important message. Well, for me it felt important. I explained that I felt that it came directly from Spirit. And this message, what it told me, what I was being told, is that there would be a very very large earthquake or some kind of major event with very much energy release. And at the time the message was that it would be on the west coast of North America and that it would be comparable to a 9.8 magnitude earthquake. 
  
 The narrator goes on to explain that a planetary alignment is going to be the cause of this divinely predicted event. The only problem, aside from the fact that you shouldn’t believe random shit you find on YouTube? Planetary alignments can’t cause earthquakes. They simply can’t. If you need someone to do the math for you, Phil Plait of the Bad Astronomy blog has gone ahead and worked it out. 
  
 But no matter how many times it’s debunked, we’re going to keep hearing from this Frank guy. In fact, Frank released a new video today. He points to some recent large earthquakes in the Solomon Islands and Tonga as evidence that something is indeed happening. He pulls up a graphic of the solar system and insists that an alignment between Earth, Mars and Mercury is to blame. 
  
 The problem with pointing to big earthquakes as a sign of things to come is that decent sized earthquakes are happening all the time. If you don’t believe me, there are earthquakebots on Twitter you can follow. Large earthquakes are surprisingly common. Of course, it will be interesting to see what kind of video Frank releases this coming weekend when the Big One doesn’t hit. 
  
 This isn’t the first time that people have put forth the idea that a planetary alignment will cause devastating earthquakes. The 1974 book The Jupiter Effect, by John Gribbin and Stephen Plagemann, warned that just such a thing was going to happen in 1982. And you can guess how that prediction panned out. 
  
 Now, you may be asking yourself if this YouTube video and its sloppy theories might have anything to do with a major motion picture being released on Friday. And frankly, we don’t know. But if this really is just a viral marketing campaign for San Andreas (out this Friday) then I’d have to say it’s not terribly bright. If I thought a major earthquake was going to hit soon the last place I’d want to be hanging out is a crowded theater. 
  
 The Big One is definitely coming. It’s inevitable. But if anybody tells you they know precisely when it will happen, you’re going to want to take that with a boulder-sized grain of salt. ||||| Photo by Ditrianum Media, from the video 
  
 Sigh. This again? 
  
 I’m seeing some buzz on social media that a planetary alignment on May 28 will cause a huge magnitude 9.8 earthquake in California. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 Let me be clear: No, it won’t. It can’t. Worse, there’s not even really an alignment on that date, at least not with the Earth. It’s all baloney. 
  
 This all stems from a video by someone who I believe is sincere but also profoundly wrong on essentially every level. It’s been picked up by various credulous places online, then spread around by people who haven’t been properly skeptical about it. 
  
 While this story hasn’t gone as viral as the usual astronomically impaired tabloid doomsday BS, it’s popular enough to debunk and hopefully can serve as a template for future such claims of doom and gloom that are actually smoke and mirrors. 
  
 First, here’s the video. It’s from YouTuber Ditrianum Media. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 There’s a whole lot of nonsense in there that I won’t even bother with, including claims of spirits and (seriously) Nostradamus. 
  
 But then the narrator starts talking about alignments. Several things struck me while watching this. 
  
 First, there is simply no way an alignment of planets can cause an earthquake on Earth. It’s literally impossible. I’ve done the math on this before; the maximum combined gravity of all the planets under ideal conditions is still far less than the gravitational influence of the Moon on the Earth, and the Moon at very best has an extremely weak influence on earthquakes. 
  
 Phil Plait Phil Plait writes Slate’s Bad Astronomy blog and is an astronomer, public speaker, science evangelizer, and author of Death From the Skies! 
  
 To put a number on it, because the Moon is so close to us its gravitational pull is 50 times stronger than all the planets in the solar system combined. Remember too that the Moon orbits the Earth on an ellipse, so it gets closer and farther from us every two weeks. The change in its gravity over that time is still more than all the planets combined, yet we don’t see catastrophic earthquakes twice a month, let alone aligning with the Moon’s phases or physical location in its orbit. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 So right away, we’re done. 
  
 I’ll note that in the video the narrator talks about the planets being “energized,” but doesn’t talk about what this truly means … but it doesn’t matter, because it’s meaningless. It’s the usual sort of New Age word salad when they talk about “energy”; they never define what that truly means (unlike in science where it has a strict definition) so it means everything and nothing. 
  
 Also, if you watch the video, like for example at 7:27 and 8:11, these “alignments” don’t even align with the Earth! One is just two planets that appear to line up with the Sun when the Earth is far off to the side, and in another they actually form a perpendicular line with the Earth. This is beyond silly; it doesn’t even make any sense. 
  
 Photo by NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute; NASA,ESA, and M. Buie (Southwest Research Institute); NASA; Phil Plait 
  
 At 8:40 he shows another “alignment” that apparently goes between the Earth and Moon … but note that the Moon’s distance to Earth isn’t shown to scale! The sizes of the planets and Moon aren’t to scale either. Look at the width of the Earth’s orbit in the display; that’s 300 million kilometers in real distance. The Moon’s distance from Earth is about 380,000 km, or a bit more than 0.1 percent of the size of Earth’s orbit. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 To scale, the Earth and Moon would be less than a pixel apart on his display! Now imagine how small the Earth itself would be on that scale. 
  
 That “alignment” doesn’t come anywhere near splitting the two. I’m not sure I’d take doomsday advice from someone who doesn’t seem to understand the software being used to predict it. 
  
 Again, I’m sure the narrator is sincere and honestly wants to help people and warn them of an event he thinks may be real. This puts him a comfortable step up over the various and repulsive scam artists you can find all over the Web. 
  
 But it doesn’t make him within a glancing blow of reality. Alignments of the planets have no effect on us at all. They can’t make you float, they don’t cause earthquakes (the “supermoon” doesn’t either), and don’t even get me started about astrology. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 There is something very human about being scared of the unknown, and when we don’t understand something, it’s all too easy to supply any number of threatening boogeymen to stand in the nebulous shadows. 
  
 Understanding reality makes a lot of those boogeymen evaporate. Poof. This is absolutely one of those times. 
  
 And yes, understanding reality also introduces us to real things that are scary. But there’s the beauty of science: We can separate the real things that scare us from the things that shouldn’t. If something isn’t real, you don’t have to worry about it. You can focus instead on the circumstances you can affect. 
  
 I think that many people who turn to pseudo- (and outright anti-) science may do so because they feel that things are out of their control. That’s too bad, because—even though it may not seem like it at first—when you begin down the path of studying science, of becoming a critical thinker, these tools actually help you be more in control of your life, not less. |||||