Attorney Alice Fisher arrives at the U.S. Department of Justice on Saturday, May 13, 2017. Fisher is one of nearly a dozen candidates President Donald Trump is considering to succeed ousted FBI Director... (Associated Press) 
  
 Attorney Alice Fisher arrives at the U.S. Department of Justice on Saturday, May 13, 2017. Fisher is one of nearly a dozen candidates President Donald Trump is considering to succeed ousted FBI Director James Comey. Trump fired Comey this week. Three other people are expected to interview Saturday with... (Associated Press) 
  
 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the Trump administration's search for a new FBI director (all times local): 
  
 9:40 a.m. 
  
 President Donald Trump says he could name a new FBI director by late next week, before he departs on his first foreign trip. 
  
 Trump spoke with reporters traveling with him on his way to give a commencement address at a Virginia college. The president was asked whether he could announce an FBI candidate by Friday — when that trip abroad is set to begin. 
  
 Trump says "even that is possible." 
  
 Justice Department officials began interviewing candidates on Saturday to replace fired FBI Director James Comey. 
  
 The job requires Senate confirmation. 
  
 Trump fired Comey on Tuesday amid the FBI's investigation into Russia's role in the 2016 presidential election, as well as possible ties between Trump associates and the Russian government. 
  
 ___ 
  
 9:25 a.m. 
  
 The first candidate to interview for FBI director has left the Justice Department after about 90 minutes. 
  
 White-collar defense attorney Alice Fisher interviewed with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein. 
  
 Three other people are expected to interview on Saturday afternoon. 
  
 They are acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, Michael J. Garcia, an associate judge on New York's highest court, and GOP Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate leader and a former state attorney general. 
  
 That's according to two people familiar with the search process who weren't authorized to publicly discuss the deliberations and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
  
 They are among nearly a dozen candidates President Donald Trump is considering to succeed ousted FBI Director James Comey. Trump fired Comey this past week. 
  
 Fisher was assistant attorney general for the department's criminal division under President George W. Bush. 
  
 ___ 
  
 8:35 a.m. 
  
 White-collar defense attorney Alice Fisher has arrived at the Justice Department to interview for FBI director. 
  
 Fisher — assistant attorney general for the department's criminal division under President George W. Bush — was seen entering the department's headquarters on Saturday morning. 
  
 She's one of nearly a dozen candidates President Donald Trump is considering to succeed ousted FBI Director James Comey. Trump fired Comey this past week. 
  
 Three other people are expected to interview Saturday with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein. 
  
 Fisher faced resistance from Democrats during her confirmation for the Justice job over her alleged participation in discussions about detention policies at the Guantanamo Bay facility in Cuba. 
  
 The FBI has never had a female director. 
  
 ___ 
  
 7:55 a.m. 
  
 Four candidates to be FBI director are in line for the first interviews with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, at Justice Department headquarters. 
  
 The Trump administration is looking to fill the job after President Donald Trump fired Director James Comey this week. 
  
 Among those expected to be coming in Saturday are acting FBI director Andrew McCabe and Alice Fisher, a top Justice Department official in the George W. Bush administration. 
  
 That's according to two people familiar with the search process who weren't authorized to publicly discuss the deliberations and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
  
 Saturday's list includes Michael J. Garcia, an associate judge on New York's highest court, and GOP Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate leader and a former state attorney general. ||||| Sen. John Cornyn (Tex.), the second-ranking Senate Republican, who has in recent weeks become a more outward defender of President Trump, and acting FBI director Andrew McCabe, who on Thursday contradicted the Trump White House on a range of topics, will interview Saturday to serve as the FBI’s permanent director, according to people familiar with the matter. 
  
 The men are two of at least four people who will interview to replace James B. Comey, whom Trump suddenly fired this week, the people said. 
  
 The others are Alice Fisher, a white-collar defense lawyer who previously led the Justice Department’s criminal division, and Michael J. Garcia, a judge on the New York State Court of Appeals who previously served as the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
  
 [Acting FBI director contradicts Trump White House on Comey, Russia probe] 
  
 All four will be interviewed by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, the two top officials in the Justice Department. 
  
 The list is not a comprehensive accounting of finalists for the FBI director position. It is possible other candidates could be considered, officials said, and the ultimate decision falls to Trump. Justice Department officials also have interviewed four other candidates to serve as interim FBI director, although it is possible that McCabe could stay on in that role if he were not selected for the permanent job at the top. 
  
 The job also requires Senate confirmation. Whoever is selected is appointed to a 10-year term, although the person can be removed by the president. 
  
 Trump’s sudden removal of Comey from the position set off a political firestorm in Washington, fueling fears that the president was trying to stifle the bureau’s probe into possible coordination between his campaign and Russia to influence the outcome of the 2016 election. 
  
 Trump acknowledged in an interview with NBC News published Thursday that he was thinking of the Russia controversy when he decided to fire Comey. Previously, White House officials said he was acting on the recommendation of the top two Justice Department officials, particularly a memo from Rosenstein that had criticized Comey for his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. 
  
 Trump said, though, that he would have removed Comey no matter the advice from Rosenstein or Sessions. 
  
 Cornyn, 65, is a former Texas attorney general and state supreme court justice and is serving his third term in the Senate. He is the Senate majority whip, making him the second-ranking Republican in the chamber. But GOP senators set term limits for leadership posts, and his ends at the start of 2019. 
  
 Cornyn is not expected to challenge Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who is not term-limited and is widely respected among Republican senators. That means Cornyn is on the verge of hitting a professional ceiling, so the 10-year term of FBI director might be a logical next move. 
  
 If Cornyn were selected, there likely would be Democratic concern about handing over the nation’s premier law enforcement agency to a Republican who — despite being considered an affable senator — has served as a prominent partisan attack dog. 
  
 Cornyn has in recent weeks become more of an outward defender of Trump. This week, he dismissed the idea that Trump fired Comey to impede the FBI’s Russia probe, terming the idea a “phony narrative.” 
  
 “If you assume that, this strikes me as a lousy way to do it,” he said. “All it does is heighten the attention given to the issue.” 
  
 If he were nominated, his confirmation would be assured because of Democratic rules changes in 2013 that require only a simple majority. But Democratic strategists have already put their party’s senators on notice that they will hold their feet to the fire to ensure they vote against a Cornyn confirmation. 
  
 Spokesmen for Cornyn did not immediately respond to emails Friday night. Asked previously whether he would be willing to be FBI director, Cornyn said with a smile, “I’m happy serving my state and my country in my present position.” 
  
 One person familiar with Cornyn’s thinking told The Washington Post that his meeting with Sessions on Saturday was not billed as an interview and instead was about the “next steps” for the FBI. 
  
 Cornyn was to have delivered the commencement address Saturday at Texas Southern University in Houston, but university officials on Friday canceled his visit to the historically black college after a petition signed by hundreds of students protested his appearance. 
  
 The university said it asked Cornyn to visit at a later date. The senator’s office said Friday that he respected the decision and looked forward to visiting in the future. 
  
 McCabe, who had been the FBI deputy director before Comey was fired, might be a more palatable choice for Democrats. At a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing Thursday, he heaped praise on his former boss and did not hesitate to rebut narratives advanced by the White House, including its attempt to minimize the importance of the Russia probe. He is a longtime FBI agent who led the Washington Field Office before he was elevated to the bureau’s No. 2 post in 2016. 
  
 Through an FBI spokesman, he declined to comment. 
  
 Fisher and Garcia are both alumni of the George W. Bush administration. Garcia served as assistant secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and as the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, where he led the investigation into a prostitution ring that ultimately forced New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer to resign. 
  
 Fisher served as an assistant U.S. attorney general, and, if selected, would be the first woman to run the FBI. 
  
 Efforts to reach both of them Friday night were unsuccessful. 
  
 Paul Kane contributed to this report. |||||