Mourners gathered Tuesday for a vigil in memory of 45-year-old Missy Bevers, who was found slain in a Midlothian church Monday morning. (Published Tuesday, April 19, 2016) 
  
 Midlothian police are examining several theories in the killing of a fitness instructor found slain in a North Texas church Monday morning, officials said Tuesday, as her husband and others mourned. 
  
 Nearly 200 people gathered for a candlelight vigil Tuesday evening in memory of Missy Bevers, a 45-year-old mother of three. 
  
 Bevers was at Creekside Church of Christ early Monday to prepare for a Camp Gladiator class. When her students began to arrive at about 5 a.m., they found her unresponsive and called 911, police said. 
  
 Bevers was declared dead Monday morning, but no cause of death was given. Tuesday afternoon, Midlothian police said the autopsy by the Dallas County medical examiner had been completed but that the results were being withheld pending the ongoing investigation by their department, county officials and the Texas Rangers. 
  
 Surveillance video recorded inside the church shows a person, dressed in black gear with police markings, using a tool to pry open doors to enter the building shortly before Bevers entered. 
  
 Midlothian Police Assistant Chief Kevin Johnson said Tuesday that contrary to initial reports, the detectives can no longer say they are looking for a man. 
  
 Video Amber Guyger Indicted on Murder Charge in Botham Jean Death 
  
 "We are backing off our statement that the suspect on video was a man. I know we said 'he' over and over again yesterday, and that was a mistake," Johnson said. "There's a lot of speculation based on the gait and appearance that this person may be a woman. It's a legitimate question right now. We no longer will say the suspect is a man." 
  
 Johnson said the public should not jump to conclusions that police are searching for a woman either. 
  
 "That does not mean I'm saying this suspect is a woman. It's just that at this point we can’t rule it out. We don't know yet," Johnson said. 
  
 Midlothian Police Release New Video in Church Slaying 
  
 Midlothian police released new video Tuesday, April 19, 2016, in the investigation into the slaying of a woman inside a church early Monday. Police are still working to determine the identity of the person responsible for her death. (Published Tuesday, April 19, 2016) 
  
 Police said they want the public to look closely at the video to see if anyone recognizes the walk and stature of the individual. 
  
 Many of those who came to the vigil Tuesday were close friends who hugged and prayed with Bevers' husband and daughters. 
  
 "I want to thank everybody for coming here. I know you only represent just a fraction of, a small fraction of all the people that Missy's life touched and I appreciate all of you all coming out here. Thank you very much," husband Brandon Bevers said. 
  
 Bevers' fitness students and fellow instructors were among those in attendance at Tuesday's vigil. 
  
 "Whenever I see these shirts, whenever I see 'Gladiator Camp' whatever it is, I'll know that Missy is there with me, and I'm very proud of you guys," said Brandon Bevers, Missy's husband. 
  
 Midlothian police said the person who may have killed Bevers was dressed in "tactical gear" with police markings, including a heavy helmet, gloves and military-style battle-dress pants. Midlothian Chief of Police Carl Smith said the person was "designed to look like a police officer." 
  
 EMS workers noted broken glass and other signs of a struggle near Bevers' body. Police searched the building and determined there were visible signs of forced entry. 
  
 Police said the motion-activated surveillance cameras did not record any interaction between Bevers and the person. 
  
 Husband of Slain Fitness Instructor Speaks Publicly 
  
 Brandon Bevers, the husband of a North Texas fitness instructor killed Monday before a class inside a Midlothian church, spoke publicly Tuesday for the first time since his wife's death. (Published Tuesday, April 19, 2016) 
  
 So far, police have not settled on a motive, although police said Monday it was possible Bevers interrupted a burglary. 
  
 "Even amongst our investigators, there are a lot of theories," Johnson said Tuesday. "We’re discussing all possibilities. And we'll go where the evidence leads us." 
  
 Johnson said a vehicle can be seen on the video may belong to the killer, but there's not enough information to give the public. 
  
 "There’s one surveillance camera where you can see the car in the far corner of the frame, parked in the distance. You can't make out a plate, and we're not even comfortable releasing anything about a possible make or model,” Johnson said. 
  
 $10K Reward After Woman Found Dead at Church 
  
 Oak Farms Dairy is offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest in the case of Missy Bevers, who was found dead in a Midlothian church. (Published Monday, April 18, 2016) 
  
 It was not immediately known if anything was taken from the church and police were not sure if the person was carrying a weapon. 
  
 Midlothian police said Tuesday afternoon that the Texas Rangers have also joined the investigation. 
  
 Oak Farms Dairy announced it was offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and successful grand jury indictment in this case. 
  
 Anyone with information on the person's identity is asked to call the Midlothian Police Department at 972-775-3333. 
  
 Body Found Inside Creekside Church of Christ (Raw Video) 
  
 The death of a woman whose body was found inside a Midlothian church Monday is being investigated as a homicide, police say. (Published Monday, April 18, 2016) 
  
 Creekside Church of Christ released a statement Tuesday: 
  
 "The Creekside church family would like to offer our sincere condolences for the family of Missy Bevers. This tragedy has deeply affected all of us in the community that knew and loved her. While Missy was not a member of Creekside, she was a friend and we grieve for those affected by this. 
  
 We would like to thank the Midlothian Police Department for their hard work , and we pray that their efforts in finding the person responsible will be swift and successful." 
  
 Top News: New Supreme Court Photo, Cohen Plea, and More 
  
 NBC 5's Jeff Smith, Chris Jose and Kevin Cokely contributed to this report. ||||| Updated at 6 p.m. Tuesday: Revised to include new video, comments from the victim’s husband. 
  
 The husband of a woman found dead at a Midlothian church Monday said he doesn’t believe his wife knew her killer. 
  
 Husband of Missy Bevers: I do not believe my wife was targeted @FOX4 #Midlothian pic.twitter.com/JcGaPlwefx — Natalie Solis (@Fox4Natalie) April 19, 2016 
  
 “I’m just hoping that somebody either saw something or somebody can recognize the mannerisms of this person on the video,” Brandon Bevers told KDFW-TV (Fox 4). 
  
 Surveillance video shows the person suspected of killing Terri “Missy” Bevers dressed in SWAT-type tactical gear walking through Creekside Church of Christ. Police released a second video clip on Tuesday, showing the person opening doors. 
  
 No arrest had been reported in the case Tuesday, police said, and a motive remains unclear. 
  
 Brandon Bevers said Tuesday that he does not believe she was targeted. He said he was in Mississippi for a trip earlier this week, and they’d talked on the phone the night before she was killed. 
  
 “I haven’t had a whole lot of time to get emotional yet,” he told KDFW-TV (Channel 4). “I’ve been dealing with the immediate needs of my children.” 
  
 Authorities were called to the church on East U.S. Highway 287 about 5 a.m. Monday on reports of an unresponsive woman inside, police said. Bevers, from Red Oak, was pronounced dead at the scene. 
  
 The 45-year-old fitness instructor had scheduled a Camp Gladiator training session at the church Monday morning. The mother of three was found by several of her students. 
  
 Midlothian Police Chief Carl Smith said footage from motion-activated security cameras showed a person in the church shortly before 4 a.m., about half an hour before Bevers arrived. 
  
 Smith said the person was dressed in tactical gear, including a helmet and a heavy vest that read “POLICE” on the front and back. 
  
 “His intent was to look like a police officer,” Smith said. 
  
 Police said the person appeared to be carrying a tool that was used to break windows but did not know whether the person was armed with anything else. 
  
 Bevers had posted on Facebook that she would be at the church early Monday, and police are investigating whether she was targeted. 
  
 “It certainly is possible” that she interrupted a burglary in progress, Smith said, but he added that “all scenarios are on the table right now.” 
  
 Smith added that it’s unusual for someone to break into a church at that hour and that there was no evidence anything was taken from the church. 
  
 Police, however, said Tuesday that it was still too early to say what happened. They had received several tips and were sorting through them, police Sgt. Nick Harp said. 
  
 “There are a lot of theories, of course, but it’s too early to focus on one,” Harp said. “We want to go where the evidence takes us.” 
  
 He also declined to release details on her cause of death. 
  
 Police said in a statement Tuesday that although they referred to the suspect as a man during a news conference Monday, there was insufficient proof of the person’s gender, and that it could be either a man or a woman. 
  
 Several people gathered Monday evening at the Midlothian Conference Center for a private candlelight vigil in Bevers’ memory, KXAS-TV (NBC5) reported. 
  
 Missy Bevers’ brother-in-law, Chad Tucker, said she loved her family and “was dedicated to taking care of herself, taking care of other people and being a good mother.” 
  
 “She was an amazing woman,” Tucker told KTVT-TV (Channel 11). “She worked very hard not only for her fitness, but to help other people get the lifestyle they needed, wanted.” 
  
 Oak Farms Dairy is offering a $10,000 reward for information that leads to the arrest and grand jury indictment of the person responsible for Bevers’ death. The reward will remain active for six months. 
  
 Anyone with information about the suspect is asked to call Midlothian police at 972-775-3333 or Ellis County Crime Stoppers at 972-937-7297. 
  
 Staff writers Naheed Rajwani and Claire Cardona contributed to this report. |||||