Elliott survived a review for a catch by Rory Burns when on 46 but went on to share an unbeaten 64-run partnership with Colin de Grandhomme (39 not out).
The Bears reached 207-4 after Surrey had earlier posted 204-5 in their 20 overs, Jason Roy top-scoring on 74.
They will face Glamorgan in their last-four tie at Finals Day on 2 September.
Hampshire will take on Notts Outlaws in the second semi-final at Edgbaston.
New Zealand international Elliott, Bears captain after Ian Bell's decision to step down, was given not out by the on-field umpires when Burns was convinced he had caught him in the deep diving forward.
But, following numerous television replays, Elliott survived and went on to take his side into a home Finals Day.
Surrey's innings tailed away after Roy (74 off 38 balls) and Aaron Finch (39 off 27 balls) had shared a 98-run opening partnership in just 9.1 overs. Finch was forced to bat with a runner after he injured his right calf when getting off the mark.
Ed Pollock (24), Adam Hose (36) and Sam Hain (29) gave the Bears a platform in the run chase before Elliott and De Grandhomme came together at 143-4 and guided the 2014 winners to their third Finals Day in four years.
Surrey skipper Gareth Batty told BBC Radio London:
"We weren't good enough. We were in a position to get more runs than we did, and we didn't quite get it right with the ball.
"I thought our score was par, nothing more than that. I thought that where we were at the half-way point, we should have been looking at 220 plus.
"But we had 200 on the board and sometimes you can defend that. Tonight we couldn't and that's something we'll have to look at.
(On Elliott review) "We obviously thought it was out, I trust Rory implicitly. We saw on TV last night that something like that was given out, tonight it was given not out, I think there needs to be clarity."
Bears captain Grant Elliott told BBC WM:
"With the catch Burns claimed, they are always tough. I wasn't sure, so I left it to the umpires to make the decision.
"At the start of the season, we maybe weren't a side who could chase 200-plus but we've changed our game throughout the tournament.
"To see guys like Ed Pollock and Adam Hose bat like they did and give us such a good start was great.
"It was a good surface to bat on and Colin De Grandhomme gave me great support at the end. And now we have a fantastic opportunity with Finals Day on our home ground."