Daiju Azuma. CC-BY-SA 
  
 Toxic chemicals are accumulating in marine creatures in Earth’s deepest oceanic trenches, the first measurements of organic pollutants in these regions have revealed. 
  
 “We often think deep-sea trenches are remote and pristine, untouched by humans,” says Alan Jamieson, a deep-ocean researcher at the University of Aberdeen, UK. But Jamieson and his colleagues have found man-made organic pollutants at high levels in shrimp-like crustaceans called amphipods that they collected from two deep-ocean trenches, he told a conference on deep-ocean exploration in Shanghai on 8 June. 
  
 “It’s really surprising to find pollutants so deep in the ocean at such high concentrations,” says Jeffrey Drazen, a marine ecologist at the University of Hawaii in Honolulu. 
  
 Before this work — which has not yet been published — the study of pollutants in deep-sea organisms had been limited to those that live at depths of 2,000 metres or less1, 2. The latest research tested for levels of organic chemicals in amphipods collected at 7,000–10,000 metres depth, from the Mariana Trench in the western Pacific Ocean — the world’s deepest trench — and from the Kermadec Trench near New Zealand. 
  
 The creatures were captured during two international expeditions in 2014, when researchers lowered uncrewed landers into the trenches as part of a research programme to study deep-ocean ecosystems, sponsored by the US National Science Foundation. 
  
 Polluted depths 
  
 In both trenches, the amphipods contained polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) — used to make plastics and as anti-fouling agents to stop barnacles growing on ships' hulls — and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), which are used as flame retardants. 
  
 Both chemicals are man-made and belong to a category of carbon-based compounds called persistent organic pollutants (POPs) because they are hard to break down. Production of PCBs — which are carcinogens — has been banned in many countries since the late 1970s; PBDEs, which animal studies suggest may disrupt hormone systems and interfere with neural development, are only now being phased out. 
  
 The concentrations of PCBs in the amphipods from the Mariana Trench were particularly high, and 15 times greater than those found in the Kermadec. “It’s even higher than in the estuaries of two of the most polluted rivers — the Pearl River and the Liao River — in China,” says Jamieson. 
  
 By contrast, the Kermadec Trench contains PBDEs at concentrations five times greater than the Mariana — and at a level that is higher than in the coastal waters of New Zealand’s North Island, the study finds. 
  
 Douglas Bartlett, a deep-sea microbiologist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, California, says that the discovery is fascinating. “It hits home very dramatically that the trenches are not that remote after all, and the world is all connected,” he says. 
  
 That sinking feeling 
  
 “The take-home message is that when you dump rubbish into the sea, it will ultimately sink. When [pollutants] fall into the trenches, they have nowhere else to go. So they’re just going to keep building up,” says Jamieson. Eventually, the trenches will have higher levels of pollutants than in estuaries, where chemicals are constantly flushed out to open waters, he says. 
  
 The researchers suspect that the proximity of the Mariana Trench to large plastic manufacturers in Asia, as well as to a long-term US military base on the island of Guam, may have contributed to its high PCB levels. The waters above the trench are also part of the North Pacific gyre, a system of strong swirling ocean currents that might be sucking materials on the surface down into the deep sea. Both the Mariana and Kermadec trenches are around 11 kilometres deep. “It sounds quite deep, but it’s not in terms of pollutant transport,” says Jamieson. 
  
 The high POP levels are a cause for concern, researchers say. The deep-ocean canyons are “untapped natural resources” — a potential supply of organisms that could be valuable for a range of commercial applications, including drug discovery, but which might be affected by the pollutants, says Drazen. 
  
 Scientists think that deep-ocean trenches could also be an important carbon sink, playing a key part in regulating climate, Bartlett says. In part, that is because in the trenches, carbon is pushed deep into Earth's interior when one tectonic plate is thrust underneath another. The trenches are also teeming with microbes that may convert carbon-containing chemicals into forms that aren’t easily converted into carbon dioxide. 
  
 “If somehow microbial activities are adversely affected because of all this pollution, I’d wonder what that’s doing to the carbon cycle in general,” says Bartlett. ||||| World Amphipoda Database 
  
 (part of WoRMS - the World Register of Marine Species) 
  
 Introduction 
  
 The amphipods belong to the very diverse crustacean class Malacostraca, which includes other common groups such as crabs, lobsters and shrimp. The order Amphipoda is part of the superorder Peracarida, uniting a diverse group of small shrimp-like taxa that brood their young in a pouch, with no independent larval dispersal stage. 
  
 Amphipods are unique in the possession of three pairs of pleopods and three pairs of uropods. In a small minority of cases secondary reduction of the abdomen may result in a loss of one or more pairs (e.g. the Caprellidae). No other malacostracan group possesses more than one pair of uropods. The name Amphipoda means ‘different feet’ and refers to the different forms of the pereopods (legs) which contrasts with the related Isopoda meaning ‘same feet’. Amphipods are variously known as, scuds, shrimp or sideswimmers. Those amphipods that have colonised the land are often referred to as landhoppers and beach dwellers are called sandhoppers or beach/sand fleas. 
  
 The order Amphipoda is very diverse and currently contains 10,207 species which are divided into six suborders: 
  
 Suborder Amphilochidea (88 families; 682 genera; 4,140 species) 
  
 Suborder Colomastigidea (2 families; 3 genera; 55 species) 
  
 Suborder Hyperiidea (35 families; 76 genera; 283 species) 
  
 Suborder Hyperiopsidea (3 families; 4 genera; 13 species) 
  
 Suborder Pseudingolfiellidea (1 families; 1 genera; 4 species) 
  
 Suborder Senticaudata (99 families; 907 genera; 5,638 species) 
  
 Amphipods range in size from a millimetre in length to the supergiant amphipod Alicella gigantea at 340 mm. Amphipods can be found in all marine habitats (even the deepest ocean trenches e.g. Hirondellea dubia), and have also colonised freshwaters and terrestrial habitats; even ectoparasitic groups are also known among them. There are at least 1870 amphipod species and subspecies recorded from fresh or inland waters accounting for ~ 20 % of the total known amphipod diversity. Amphipods are important herbivores, detritivores, micropredators and scavengers in most environments and they form an important component of marine and freshwater ecosystems. 
  
 History of the database 
  
 The World Amphipoda Database arose from a merger in 2010 of the World Amphipoda List compiled over many years by Jim Lowry (Australian Museum), with the European Register of Marine Species (ERMS) amphipod list, compiled by Mark Costello with the help of Denise Bellan-Santini and Jean-Claude Dauvin, and edited up until 2013 with significant additions from the RAMS Amphipoda (Antarctic) list (compiled by Claude De Broyer) and from other regional editors. 
  
 The original editors of Amphipoda within WoRMS were Mark Costello, Denise Bellan-Santini, Jean Claude-Dauvin, & Wim Vader, with Claude de Broyer as Editor of the Register of Antarctic Marine Species (RAMS) Amphipoda. The north-Atlantic lists were compiled by Mark Costello with assistance from Louise Collier, from Costello et al. (1989), Brattegard (1997) and Vader et al (1997). The Mediterranean and south Atlantic lists were compiled from Bellan-Santini et al. (1998), Marques and Bellan-Santini (1990, 1991), and Lopes et al. (1993). Additional species were then found in Dauvin (1999), and for Arctic seas, in Palerud and Vader (1991) and Vader (1998). Jim Lowry’s unpublished list was added to WoRMS in 2010 when he became editor of the Amphipoda. To provide sufficient expert knowledge for maintaining the database, we have now (2013) formed an editorial team to whom the queries on particular taxa should be addressed. 
  
 Editorial Team: 
  
 Coordinating Editors 
  
 Horton, Tammy: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Lysianassoidea and groups without a specialist editor. 
  
 Lowry, Jim: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Talitridae, Lysianassoidea and groups without a specialist editor. 
  
 De Broyer, Claude: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Lysianassoidea and groups without a specialist editor. Also a RAMS editor. 
  
 Editors [tree] 
  
 Links to other Amphipod sites 
  
 Feedback 
  
 The authors welcome input from visitors to this website who detect errors or omissions: we strive to maintain the website as both a comprehensive and an up-to-date resource. We aim to update the database regularly and frequently. 
  
 The taxonomy in the World Amphipod Database is edited and updated by volunteer experts, assisted by the database management team at VLIZ. 
  
 Authors are encouraged to send copies of publications to the respective editor with details of new or revised nomenclature. 
  
 References 
  
 Bellan-Santini, D, Karaman G.S., Ledoyer, M., Myers, A.A., Ruffo, S. and Vader, W. 1998. The Amphipoda of the Mediterranean, Part 4. Memoires de 1 'lnstitut Oceanographique, Monaco 13: XXVII- XLIV, 815-959. 
  
 Bellan-Santini, D. and Dauvin J.C. 1997. Ampeliscidae (Amphipoda) from Iceland with a description of a new species (contribution to the BIOICE research programme). Journal of Natural History 31: 1157-1173. 
  
 Brattegard, T. 1997. Order Amphipoda, Suborder Caprellidea (Phylum Crustacea) - caprellidean amphipods or skeleton shrimps. In: Brattegard, T., Holthe, T. (editors), Distribution of marine, benthic macro-organisms in Norway. A tabulated catalogue. Directorate for Nature Management, Trondheim, 23-214. 
  
 Costello, M.J., Holmes, J.M.C., McGrath, D. and Myers, A.A. 1989. A review and catalogue of the Amphipoda (Crustacea) in Ireland. Irish Fisheries Investigations, Series B (Marine), No.33: 1-70. 
  
 Dauvin J.C. 1999. Mise it jour de la Iiste des especes d'Amphipodes (Crustaces Peracarides) presents en Manche. Cahiers de Biologie Marine 40: 165-183. 
  
 Lopes, M.F.R., Marques, J.C. and Bellan-Santini, D. 1993. The benthic amphipod fauna of the Azores (Portugal): an up-to date annotated list of species, and some biogeographic considerations. Crustaceana 65: 204-217. 
  
 Marques, J.C. and Bellan-Santini, D. 1993. Biodiversity in the ecosystem of the Portuguese continental shelf: distributional ecology and the role of benthic amphipods. Marine Biology 115: 555-564. 
  
 Palerud R. and Vader W. 1991 . Marine Amphipoda Gammaridea in North-East Atlantic and Norwegian Arctic. Tromura 68: 97 pp. 
  
 Vader W. 1998. Checklist of Amphipoda Gammaroidea ill Barents Sea area. 
  
 Vader, W., Brattegard, T., Buhl-Mortensen, L. and Larsen, K. M. 1997. Order Amphipoda, Suborder Gammaridea (Phylum Crustacea) - gammaridean amphipods. In: Brattegard, T., HoIthe, T. (editors). Distribution of marine, benthic macro-organisms in Norway. A tabulated catalogue. Directorate for Nature Management, Trondheim, 191-212. 
  
 Citation 
  
 By downloading or consulting data from this website, the visitor acknowledges that he/she agrees that data from this website, if extracted for secondary analysis resulting in a publication, should be cited as follows: 
  
 If any data constitutes a substantial proportion of the records used in secondary analyses (i.e. more than 25% of the data are derived from this source, or the data are essential to arrive at the conclusion of the analysis), the authors/managers of the database should be contacted. It may be useful to contact us directly in case there are additional data that may strengthen the analysis or there are features of the data that are important to consider but may not have been apparent from the metadata. |||||