21.00 And that concludes our coverage of today's demonstrations in Paris , a day of solidarity with the victims of the terrorist attacks and a day of remembrance. In all, up to 1.6 million people gathered at the rally in Paris - 3.7 million at events across the country - making them the biggest in French history. 
  
 20.44 A fantastic photograph from our man Heathcliff O'Malley , showing what it was all about in Paris today. 
  
 20.35 Benjamin Netanyahu's message to French Jews, that they have a home waiting for them in Israel, and his government's plan to help step up immigration from France, have been criticised as insensitive. Allison Kaplan Sommer, writing on the Haaretz website, says that it is too soon after the attack on the kosher grocery store to be making such statements. 
  
 But there's a right and a wrong way to go about it, and Israel's unsubtle ham-handedness is clearly the latter. Statements like Netanyahu's sends a message that Israeli government, in a perverse "I told you so" manner is glad that Jews abroad are threatened because it strengthens their raison dﾒetre. 
  
 20.20 Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, is speaking at the Grand Synagogue in Paris. He has thanked Lassana Bathily, the Muslim employee of a Jewish supermarket who saved several hostages on Friday, and said he appreciated the "very firm position" taken by French leaders against "the new anti-Semitism and terrorism" in France. 
  
 Our common enemy is radical, extremist Islam - not normal Islam. 
  
 20.10 And here is the line-up of world leaders, arms linked in a show of solidarity. That's Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, the president of Mali, in a central position next to Francois Hollande. And it would be wrong - at an event like this - to draw conclusions about David Cameron's peripheral placement. But you don't need to look too closely to see Benjamin Netanyahu's security detail. 
  
 19.59 A lot of anger and confusion in the US and beyond about why John Kerry or a similarly high-ranking figure is not in Paris. Barack Obama has sent Eric Holder, the attorney general, who may not be well known in Europe but is actually very close to the American president, to attend the security summit. So it's odd that - according to the US Embassy in Paris - he has not attended the march. The US is instead represented by its ambassador. 
  
 <noframe>Twitter: Fareed Zakaria - Why no U.S. leader at Paris rally? Isn't this why God invented vice presidents?</noframe> 
  
 18.36 Street protests in France often end in violence, with the CRS riot police battling hard core elements that loiter after the peaceful protesters head home. 
  
 But, says Rory Mulholland, on Sunday's giant unity march in Paris, the crowd applauded and shouted "bravo" and "merci" as police trucks began to pull out of Place de la République as the demo wound down. 
  
 Earlier, as the marchers proceeded towards Place de la Nation, many said a policeman positioned on a rooftop was spotted by the crowd and treated to several minutes of applause. He finally acknowledged the tribute with a thumbs-up. 
  
 People in Place de Republique gather round tributes to those that were killed 
  
 18.30 Western intelligence agencies have reportedly intercepted communications from Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Isil) which indicate that the attack on Charlie Hebdo is the start of a campaign of attacks in Europe, Justin Huggler writes. 
  
 The US National Security Agency (NSA) intercepted the messages from Isil members shortly after the Paris attacks, according to a report in Germany’s Bild am Sonntag newspaper. The messages also referred to Rome, the newspaper reported, but no concrete plans are known. 
  
 In the same report, Bild claimed that MI5 has warned Britain’s European partners of possible attacks on aircraft using explosives that cannot be detected by airport security. 
  
 Western intelligence agencies are concerned that the Paris gunmen may be part of a larger network, the newspaper reported, adding that the US has preliminary evidence that the brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi had contacts in the Netherlands. 
  
 In German intelligence circles, it is assumed that the Paris gunmen had contact with other militants, but there is no evidence whether the attacks were ordered by a particular organisation, Bild reported. 
  
 The NSA succeeded in breaking a code used by Isil in its communications some months ago, the newspaper said. 
  
 18.26 Morocco's foreign minister, Salaheddine Mezouar, snubbed the mammoth march against extremism through Paris on Sunday due to the presence of "blasphemous cartoons depicting the Prophet", the ministry said, AFP reports. 
  
 He nevertheless went to the Elysée Palace to present the country's "sincere condolences to the French president and to the French government following the despicable attacks in France this week". 
  
 18.21 Benjamin Netanyahu and François Hollande enter to ovations at Grand Synagogue in Paris 
  
 En direct sur @i24news_FR depuis la synagogue de la Victoire en présence de @netanyahu et @fhollande pic.twitter.com/U8EWSIwKI2 — Julien Bahloul (@julienbahloul) January 11, 2015 
  
 18.07 AFP now reporting at least 3.3 million march against extremism in France. It's believed up to 1.5m marched in Paris alone, and many thousands more across the world including in Montreal where 25,000 showed their solidarity with France. 
  
 The day began with crowds gathering and Ahmed Merabet's memorial service. Mr Merabet had been the French Muslim police officer killed in the Charlie Hebdo attack. His brother thanked everyone for turning out to rallies and said "it meant a lot to us". 
  
 (Paris) 
  
 17.48 According to French officials, this rally is the largest demonstration in French history. 
  
 17.36 The march is coming to an end as thousands rally together at Place de la Nation 
  
 17.30 The massive turnout is, according to French TV, unlike the country has seen since the 1944 Liberation of Paris from Nazi occupation, AFP writes. 
  
 17.14 Police in Belgium have reportedly arrested a man suspected of making a bomb threat against Le Soir newspaper today, writes Harriet Alexander. 
  
 Le Soir names him as Thierry Carreyn, a 53-year-old who in 1999 blew up a phone box outside the offices of Vlaams Blok - the far Right Belgian political party, now called Vlaams Belang. 
  
 17.06 The crowd was so dense in Place de la République that it took nearly an hour for its to start moving out of the square after the official start of the march, reports Rory Mulholland from Paris. 
  
 As the hundreds of thousands of marchers proceeded at a snail's pace towards Place de la Nation, there were frequent renditions of the Marseillaise national anthem, interspersed with chants of "Liberté, Liberté". Many marchers carried giant pencils in a tribute to the cartoonists killed in the attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine. 
  
 Countless others sported banners with the Je Suis Charlie slogan that has become the rallying cry for the millions of French who condemn what they see as an attack on freedom of speech. 
  
 People who lived along the route of the demonstration hung out of their windows to shout support. 
  
 Mohammad Al Qadi, a Palestinian from the West Bank who is training to be a chef in France, said he had come to show that he too wanted to defend free speech and democracy. 
  
 But he said he feared there might be a backlash against his fellow Muslims. 
  
 "Muslims living in France feel worried because it's dangerous for us. There were attacks on mosques after the (Charlie Hebdo) attacks," said Al Qadi, who was carrying a Palestinian flag. "I hope that French people will understand that Muslims are also French before they are Muslims." 
  
 Statue of Liberty, pencil in hand, comes to République square in Paris #JesuisCharlie #CharlieHebdo pic.twitter.com/WqpAbvyMvw — Rory Mulholland (@dogphone) January 11, 2015 
  
 16.56 Reporters without Borders has condemned the presence of some of the leaders at today's march. 
  
 "On what grounds are representatives of regimes that are predators of press freedom coming to Paris to pay tribute to Charlie Hebdo, a publication that has always defended the most radical concept of freedom of expression? 
  
 "Reporters Without Borders is appalled by the presence of leaders from countries where journalists and bloggers are systematically persecuted such as Egypt (which is ranked 159th out of 180 countries in RWB’s press freedom index), Russia (148th), Turkey (154th) and United Arab Emirates (118th)." 
  
 Meanwhile, David Cameron has shared his thoughts on today's march... 
  
 The #CharlieHebdo march was inspirational. Here I talk about tackling the poisonous ideology behind the murders: https://t.co/i704Kfz9kw — David Cameron (@David_Cameron) January 11, 2015 
  
 16.46 Boris Johnson said on Sky News: "I am not interested in this civil liberties stuff. If they a threat I want their email and calls listened to." 
  
 16.43 Luke Heighton at Trafalgar Square shares this picture of the French flag projected on to the National Gallery. Boris Johnson on BBC said the projection was to show London stood in solidarity with Paris. 
  
 "Paris has been through a particularly terrible few days and we in London went through the same thing 10 years ago. 
  
 "We remember what the city went through and how we reacted: we came together, we didn't allow the terrorists to divide and sow the seeds of mistrust." 
  
 16.33 The turnout in Paris alone is more than was predicted. According to AFP, one organiser says an estimated 1.5m people are in the centre for the march and AFP themselves say their tally of official tolls mean more than a million people rallied against terrorism outside Paris. 
  
 In Vienna, organisers say more than 10,000 people rallied in the Austrian capital. 
  
 16.26 In Paris, a Jewish man with a white rose spoke of the brotherhood he felt with a Muslim man who gave him the flower on BBC News. It was a powerful moment - symbolising what this march is intended to represent: we are all brothers and sisters, we are all human beings, and we are with the victims' families standing together during this tragic period. We are united. 
  
 Now the BBC's Chris Morris says Muslim traders are giving free flowers. 
  
 Muslim traders handing out free flowers in the crowd - rousing chorus of the national anthem follows... #ParisMarch pic.twitter.com/KlAYPXIEam — Chris Morris (@BBCChrisMorris) January 11, 2015 
  
 16.22 Still just as many here, despite the gathering darkness, Luke Heighton reports. The fountains below Nelson's Column appear to be lit up red, white and blue. 
  
 16.20 There's a sombre atmosphere at Trafalgar Square, with around 2,000 people braving the cold to come out in solidarity with the victims of the massacres in Paris, Luke Heighton writes. 
  
 Everyone is very clear why they are here - to defend the right to freedom of expression, including freedom of religious expression. 
  
 Everyone feels the same outrage at this week's events, but I've yet to find on person who thinks that Islam alone is the cause. 
  
 They cite everything from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to the failure of successive governments in France and the UK to integrate its immigrant communities effectively. 
  
 But there is also anger that Islamist fanatics have been allowed to dictate the terms of public discourse long before the tragic events of last week. 
  
 Many of those I've spoken to also questioned whether politicians are the right people to bridge the divide, and they had little faith in the political process to heal division. 
  
 That was particularly true of many French people, who said they feared the events at Charlie Hebdo and the kosher supermarket siege would serve to bolster support for Marine Le Pen's Front National. 
  
 Emmanuelle Bigot, 39, from Paris, came with friend Emmannuelle Recoules, 40, "because we have to stand up for free speech, and speak out against hate". 
  
 Both women live in London, and said it was important to let the extremists know they were not winning. 
  
 French Londoners Emmanuelle Bigot and Emmanuelle Recoules standing up for freedom of speech #jesuischarlie #london pic.twitter.com/SiYwrWv2WT — Luke Heighton (@luke_heighton) January 11, 2015 
  
 Flag-waving Frenchman Sebastian came with his wife and daughter "to defend freedom and to fight against antisemitism". 
  
 He said it was important people came together to say 'No', and to show that "together we are stronger than terrorism". 
  
 There's been no trouble, and barely any police presence. In fact it's probably one of the best behaved and best dressed protest I've ever seen. 
  
 Overall the message people seem to want to convey is peace and tolerance, but there is genuine anger at what has happened. 
  
 16.07 Family members and relatives of the seventeen victims, including journalists and policemen, take part in the solidarity march on the streets of Paris 
  
 16.02 Belgian newspaper Le Soir has evacuated its offices after a bomb threat which it received shortly after 2.30pm (1.30pm in the UK), Harriet Alexander reports. 
  
 A caller said "It's going to explode in your office. You're not taking us seriously." The caller said that he was acting in the name of "the extreme Left". 
  
 The caller said that he had had enough of the coverage of the Charlie Hebdo attacks, which "fuels the extreme Right." 
  
 The caller is thought to have been identified, but police in Belgium are confirming this. 
  
 Le Soir's homepage 
  
 The offices were evacutated, and the journalists are waiting to be allowed back inside. 
  
 Many of the newspapers editors were at that time at a demonstration in Brussels "against hatred", and have rushed back to the offices. 
  
 Staff of Belgian newspaper @lesoir continue to work after bomb threat (photo by @eburgraff) pic.twitter.com/69HQqsPydK — Victor Wouters (@vicwou) January 11, 2015 
  
 15.49 Luke Heighton at Trafalgar Square has been tweeting images and comments from individuals he has spoken to. Here are some of his tweets and you can follow him here. 
  
 Frenchman Sebastian + his daughter came "to show that together we're stronger than terrorism" #jesuischarlie #london pic.twitter.com/GracA0GTWN — Luke Heighton (@luke_heighton) January 11, 2015 
  
 15.45 You may have see a pair of eyes staring at you from the crowds - they are the eyes of Charlie Hebdo editor Stephane Charbonnier, the Mail Online says. 
  
 15.42 Sky News' political editor, Faisal Islam, shares this powerful placard. 
  
 Placards of unity from two Frenchmen at the Paris rally: one Jewish, one muslim: pic.twitter.com/VvKzDk11jt — Faisal Islam (@faisalislam) January 11, 2015 
  
 15.37 The funeral for a French policeman shot dead outside the offices of Charlie Hebdo has been held in Paris, hours before today's massive march in memory of the victims, writes Harriet Alexander. 
  
 Ahmed Merabet, 42, was the first officer on the scene of Wednesday's attack, carried out by al Qaeda brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi. The brothers shot Mr Merabet as he approached, and then fired at him point blank as he lay on the pavement. 
  
 On Sunday morning thousands of people gathered in the suburb of Livry-Gargan to the north east of Paris, standing in front of the town hall. 
  
 Mr Merabet grew up in the suburb, attending the Andre-Boulloche lycee, as one of five children of Algerian immigrant parents. He ran a cleaning company before joining the police force eight years ago, and worked hard for a promotion. 
  
 Read the full report here. 
  
 15.30 Want to know who's at the march? AFP says these are the leaders and ministers attending (found via Guardian) 
  
 French president François Hollande, German chancellor Angela Merkel, British prime minister David Cameron, Italian prime minister Matteo Renzi, Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy, Romanian president Klaus Iohannis, European commission president Jean-Claude Juncker, European parliament president Martin Schulz and EU president Donald Tusk. 
  
 Also Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte, Greek prime minister Antonis Samaras, Irish prime minister Enda Kenny, Danish prime minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg, Polish prime minister Ewa Kopacz and Belgian prime minister Charles Michel 
  
 Also attending is the Portuguese prime minister Pedro Passos Coelho, Czech prime minister Bohuslav Sobotka, Slovakian prime minister Robert Fico, Latvian prime minister Laimdota Straujuma, Bulgarian prime minister Boyko Borisov, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán, Croatian prime minister Zoran Milanović, Luxembourg prime minister Xavier Bettel and Maltese prime minister Joseph Muscat. 
  
 The Slovenian prime minister Miro Cerar is also there as well as Swedish prime minister Stefan Löfven, Finnish prime minister Alexander Stubb, Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko, Swiss president Simonetta Sommaruga, Kosovo president Atifete Jahjaga, Albanian prime minister Edi Rama, Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, Norwegian prime minister Erna Solberg, Georgian prime minister Irakli Garibashvili, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov and Austrian foreign minister Sebastian Kurz. 
  
 From Africa, the Malian president Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta, Gabonese president Ali Bongo, Niger president Mahamadou Issoufou, Benin president Thomas Boni Yayi, Tunisian prime minister Mehdi Jomaa and Algerian foreign minister Ramtane Lamamra. 
  
 From the US, attorney general Eric Holder and Canada's public safety minister Steven Blaney is also there. 
  
 The Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu and foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman, Jordanian King Abdullah II and Queen Rania, Palestinian Authority president Mahmoud Abbas and the United Arab Emirates foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan is there. 
  
 The Qatari Sheikh Mohammed Ben Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani is attending as well as Bahrain's foreign minister Sheikh Khaled bin Ahmed Al Khalifa and prince Abdullah Bin Hamad al-Khalifa. 
  
 15.10 Some on Twitter are pointing out the hypocrisy of certain world leaders who don't have the best track record on free expression attending the Paris rally. For example, Turkey's PM Ahmet Davutoglu and ministers from Bahrain and Egypt. 
  
 Only recently Turkey was criticised for the arrests of scriptwriters and Zaman editor-in-chief, Ekrem Dumanli 
  
 2) Prime Minister of Davutoglu of Turkey, which imprisons more journalists than any other country in the world http://t.co/sLCJaZprex — Daniel Wickham (@DanielWickham93) January 11, 2015 
  
 14) The Foreign Minister of Bahrain, 2nd biggest jailer of journos in the world per capita (they also torture them) http://t.co/HX6Q3Ia3lG — Daniel Wickham (@DanielWickham93) January 11, 2015 
  
 14.59 Here in London, as aforementioned, there is a solidarity march in Trafalgar Square. The Telegraph's Luke Heighton is there where the square - not as crowded as France - is pretty full with people.. 
  
 14.50 Lazio, who are playing against Roma, have Je Suis Charlie written on their T-shirts. 
  
 Les joueurs de la Lazio rendent hommage à Charlie Hebdo ! #JeSuisCharlie pic.twitter.com/6OXgkN2RWS — L'Actu Foot (@ActuFoot_) January 11, 2015 
  
 Lazio's midfielder Stefano Mauri during the Italian Serie A football match against AS Roma 
  
 14.48 Hundreds of Israelis attended a rally at Jerusalem city hall on Sunday to express solidarity with the victims of last week's attacks, writes Robert Tait. 
  
 Many held up Je Suis Charlie placards while others displayed alternative signs in French reading "I am a Jew of France." A small number held up similar signs in Hebrew. The rally, organised by Jerusalem City Council, was addressed by Nir Barkat, the city's mayor, and Rabbi Shlomo Moshe Amar, its chief rabbi. 
  
 It came as Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister - attending a mass rally in Paris along with Avigdor Lieberman, the foreign minister, and Naftali Bennett, the industry minister - announced that French Jews wishing to emigrate to Israel would be "welcomed with open arms". 
  
 Later his office announced that he had accepted the requests of the families of four French Jews killed by a jihadist during last Friday's siege of a Kosher supermarket to be buried in Israel. The funerals are expected to take place in Jerusalem on Tuesday. 
  
 Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority leader, also came to Paris. 
  
 14.42 The US attorney general has said there is no "credible information" al-Qaeda was behind the Paris attacks. 
  
 "At this point, we don't have any credible information that would allow us to make a determination as to which organisation was responsible," Eric Holder said in an interview from Paris with ABC's "This Week." 
  
 14.38 In an interview ahead of the march (which you can watch in the video above), Mr Cameron disclosed that he will meet security and intelligence chiefs on Monday to discuss how to respond to the terrorist attacks in France, writes Steven Swinford. 
  
 He said: "We are here to demonstrate that we all stand for the values of democracy, freedom, freedom of expression and tolerance. 
  
 "We in Britain face a very similar threat - a threat of fanatical extremism - and we have to confront that in every way we can. 
  
 "That means maintaining strong security, investing in our security services, it means being very vigilant. 
  
 "But it also means confronting the poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism wherever we find it. Whether in universities or schools or our prisons or throughout our society, we'll only defeat this threat if we use all of the means at our disposal to confront and defeat it." 
  
 He added: "If we make sure we have strong security, confront the poisonous ideology of Islamist extremism, we make sure we all play our part then I believe we can defeat it, because in the end the values that we stand for - of democracy, freedom of speech, of tolerance - these are not values that make us weak, they are values that make our societies, our economies, our countries, they're values that make us strong." 
  
 14.34 Masses of people are out in force and not just in France. More than 10,000 people marched through the Belgian capital Brussels on Sunday in solidarity with the huge rally in Paris, a police source said. 
  
 Police had counted "between 10,000 and 15,000" about half an hour after the start of the march, the source told AFP. A huge "Brussels is Charlie" banner in French, Flemish and English was hanging in the city centre. 
  
 14.31 Many of the leaders are arm in arm, showing solidarity on this important day. The families of the 17 victims are also marching in memory of their lost loved ones, killed during a three-day siege. 
  
 14.29 And the leaders are moving. 
  
 14.28 The leaders are together and should soon be on the move. 
  
 14.23 Francois Hollande, Italian PM Matteo Renzi, Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy, German chancellor Angela Merkel, British PM David Cameron, Turkey's PM Ahmet Davutoglu among other world leaders are preparing to march 
  
 Crowds gather in Paris' Palace de la Republique for the Unity rally in remembrance and defiance of the recent terrorist attacks in and around Paris 
  
 David Cameron in France ahead of huge Unity march. 'We need to look at what happened and confront poisonous ideology of Islamic extremism' — Steven Swinford (@Steven_Swinford) January 11, 2015 
  
 14.17 Loud applause from the crowd in Paris but solidarity for the nation of Voltaire is wide as Ruth Sherlock tweeted: 
  
 14.13 The EU culture ministers have released this statement defending freedom of expression and vowing to protect creativity, AFP reports. 
  
 "We, the ministers of culture of the European Union, stand in solidarity to defend the freedom of expression and vow to protect the rights of artists to create freely," said the statement, issued by the current Latvian presidency of the EU. 
  
 The ministers said they "do not accept terrorists' attempts to impose their own standards. Since time immemorial, the arts have been an inspiration for reflection giving rise to new ideas and fighting against intolerance and ignorance." 
  
 14.08 At the Republique Square, spontaneous applause appears to have broken out, according to the BBC. The march will go down the Boulevard Voltaire to the Place de la Nation and will be led by the families who lost their loved ones during the tragic events in Paris earlier this week. 
  
 Rory Mulholland says they will then be followed by the leaders with the unified French public behind them - a mix of athiests, Muslims, Jews and more, Mishal Hussain on BBC reports. 
  
 14.05 There are leaders from more than 40 countries including Israel, Italy and Spain. But they're definitely not alone as this image shows the sheer numbers. The march is called the March of Unity and for those on Twitter, the hashtag appears to be #unitymarch 
  
 14.00 There are solidarity marches across the world including in Trafalgar Square, BBC News reports 
  
 14.00 The four killed by jihadist Amedy Coulibaly in a hostage drama at a kosher supermarket in Paris will be buried in Israel on Tuesday, a community spokesman told AFP on Sunday. 
  
 "The four families decided to bury their dead in Israel. The funerals will be held on Tuesday at 10.00 am in the Mount of Olives cemetery" in Jerusalem, the source said. 
  
 13.58 David Cameron said the extremist threat will "be with us for many more years to come" as he met with other world leaders and the French president to join the march. 
  
 13.56 The leaders are on the move, they left the Elysée Palace and are on their way to join the march. 
  
 Hollande & Valls are leading their group out of the Elysee, to go to the march, which starts at Place de la Republique in an hr #UnityMarch — Harriet Alexander (@h_alexander) January 11, 2015 
  
 13.54 The entire crowd is clapping and chanting, "Charlie Charlie", says Rory Mulholland 
  
 13.53 We've got pictures of the French president welcoming world leaders. Mr Hollande (R) welcomes United Arab Emirates foreign minister Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan (L) at the Elysée Palace in the image below. 
  
 13.51 "I've lived in Paris for 14 years and have never seen any demo on this scale before. The avenues leading to the Republique, a square bigger than Trafalgar Square, are jammed with people as far as the eye can see with people trying to get on to the square. So many that no one is moving any more," adds Rory Mulholland. 
  
 13.48 Philippe Odiau, caretaker of a building on the 20th arrondissement of Paris, told Rory Mulholland he was here "because simply to show we are here to fight against barbarity. 
  
 "The French republic is still on its feet. But above all I came here above all for the memory of Franck Brinsolaro, a bodyguard at Charlie Hebdo, killed during Wednesday's attack. 
  
 "He was a friend of mine and he lived in my building - it was 48 hours before we realised it was him." 
  
 13.45 Rory Mulholland has this short dispatch from the scene at Republique Square: 
  
 The march will be taking two different routes as it is thick with people and difficult to move. The avenues leading to the square from all directions are absolutely throng with people and some people will not be able to reach the square. 
  
 The tricolour flag and Je Suis Charlie posters can be seen everywhere - and it's just started to rain. There are occasional bursts of the national anthem but there is a quiet and subdued atmosphere. 
  
 There are people climbing the statue of Mariane, the symbol of the republic - some are even hanging off the edge. 
  
 One man, dressed a green statue of liberty costume, is using a pencil instead of the torch. Vincent Renau, a banker from Paris, told me why he came here because "there's been a terrible attack on the freedom of expression and on the French republic". 
  
 On the issue of whether he was afraid, he said he was a little. "But I'm here to say yes to life. We must carry on." 
  
 13.19 The British, German and Israeli leaders were also joined by Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, and Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, all of whom will march through the French capital in the same demonstration - a world first, AFP points out. 
  
 13.09 David Cameron, Angela Merkel and Benjamin Netanyahu have arrived at the French presidency 
  
 12.59 News is breaking that the US will host a summit next month on the extremism challenge and how to fight "violent extremism around the world". 
  
 The meeting is likely to take place in Washington DC, the US attorney-general, Eric Holder, said. 
  
 12.54 Crowds continue to gather and Valerie Trierweiler appears to also be in the crowds. 
  
 BBC News was reporting that there could be more than a million people today at the march which will take place in just over an hour, but some estimates suggest it will be 700,000. 
  
 Crowds streaming towards République for the Charlie Hebdo march. pic.twitter.com/sux4SvhyGH — Rory Mulholland (@dogphone) January 11, 2015 
  
 (Pic: Warren Allott) 
  
 There is a heavy armed presence as you can see from this image of French soldiers on patrol around the Place de Nation in Paris, another big site in the march. The map below shows the march's intended route: 
  
 12.44 BREAKING Associated Press has more information about the shooting of a jogger in a Paris suburb on the same day as the Charlie Hebdo massacre, which has been linked to the gunman who killed a policewoman and four hostages at a kosher grocery, a prosecutor said on Sunday. 
  
 In a brief statement, the prosecutor said ballistics tests on shell cases from the shooting on Wednesday in Fontenay aux Roses linked them to the automatic weapon used by Amedy Coulibaly at the kosher store stormed two days later. The prosecutor said the jogger was seriously wounded. 
  
 12.43 From that meeting between interior ministers, they said there was an "urgent and crucial need" to share European air passenger information and strengthen the EU's external borders 
  
 12.32 BREAKING The French prosecutor has confirmed Amedy Coulibaly is linked to the shooting of a jogger, causing the individual to sustain critical injuries. 
  
 12.28 Louisa Loveluck points out that officials have been sent to Paris from both Egypt and Turkey, both among the biggest jailers of journalists in the world. 
  
 12.26 Tim Chester, Deputy Editor of Mashable UK, has shared this Vine via Twitter showing the crowds gathered at Place de la République two hours before the march. 
  
 People start gathering in Republique Square before the start of the march in Paris 
  
 12.21 Spain's interior minister, Jorge Fernandez Diaz, earlier said he intended to call for changes to the Schengen treaty allowing border controls. His proposal for change was in order to limit the movements of Islamic fighters returning to Europe from the Middle East, AFP reports. 
  
 "We are going to back border controls and it is possible that as a consequence it will be necessary to modify the Schengen treaty," he told the daily El Pais ahead of a ministerial meeting on the subject in Paris. 
  
 12.16 A circle of pens laid in tribute to victims of the Charlie Hebdo massacre has emerged in Trafalgar Square 
  
 12.10 To give you some idea of the scale of the security operation around the march in Paris today, a total of 5,500 police, gendarmes and soldiers are being deployed across the capital, Harriet Alexander writes. 
  
 Just to protect the president and 40-odd other heads of state and world leaders - among them Benjamin Netanyahu, Angela Merkel, David Cameron, King Abdullah and Queen Rania of Jordan - will be 150 police, on 56 motorbikes. 
  
 For the main march, 2,200 men and women will be deployed for protection - including 20 teams of officers to detect high-risk individuals. 
  
 Snipers will be placed on rooftops along the route. 
  
 Two thousand officers and 1,350 soldiers will protect other sites across Paris - transport hubs, tourist sites, media offices, religious schools and public buildings. 
  
 Police vehicles parked close to the Place de la Republique in Paris (More pictures here) 
  
 12.06 "There is not one country who did not wish to be beside France... I would like to say, with great gratitude, from the depth of my heart, from the French government and people, to thank the ministers for their solidarity, [and] their boundless friendship," Mr Cazeneuve added. 
  
 "I want to tell them from the depth of my heart, I will not forget the way that they have been beside us. Thank you very much for being here." 
  
 12.02 Strong words from Mr Hollande: "The entire country will rise up," he told ministers, according to his entourage, reports AFP. 
  
 12.01 Earlier today, Mr Cazeneuve welcomed the Home Secretary, Theresa May, before the start of an international meeting aimed at fighting terrorism 
  
 11.57 "We have shared information about these foreign fighters and these networks. We have decided to reinforce our cooperation. 
  
 "To improve the efficiency of our fight against terrorism in all its form, [we must do so]" Mr Cazeneuve adds. 
  
 11.55 "We are determined to struggle together against them and we have," Mr Cazeneuve says 
  
 11.53 Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, is with his European counterparts and speaking in Paris at the Elysée Palace. 
  
 11.39 Liam Fox is also on Sky's Murnaghan, and earlier today we published a piece by the former Defence Secretary, urging for more access to be given to security services to protect the UK and better funding for MI6, MI5 and GCHQ. 
  
 The spending priorities of any government are usually a reflection of the values of the population it serves. If that is so, then we have to question the priorities of our country. At a time when we face growing and sustained terrorist threats, we spend more on the heating allowance for the elderly in a year than we do on the combined budgets of our security services – GCHQ, MI6 and MI5. 
  
 [O]ur security services need to be given access to the data they require to help to keep us safe. 
  
 When Snowden took data to China and Russia, some 58,000 files came from GCHQ, information that had played a vital role in preventing terrorism in Britain over the past decade. 
  
 It was not freedom-fighting – we should call treason by its name and those who assisted Snowden must be held responsible for their actions. 
  
 Former defence sec @LiamFoxMP tells #Murnaghan UK must keep a "sense of proportion" in its reaction to Paris attacks pic.twitter.com/S8nHRgU8n8 — PoliticsHome (@politicshome) January 11, 2015 
  
 11.28 Turks have tracked Boumeddiene's phone to a Turkish border town on Jan 8, but it has since gone quiet, writes Ben Farmer 
  
 Turkish counter-terrorism officials have told the Financial Times they believe that Hayat Boumeddiene may now have passed into Syria and could be in territory held by the Islamic state of Iraq and the Levant, known as Isil or Isis. 
  
 The fugitive is believed to have arrived in Istanbul from Paris via Madrid on January 2. CCTV images from Istanbul airport appear to confirm her presence, Turkish officials say. 
  
 A signal from her phone was then traced on January 8 to the Turkish border town of Akcakale, which is next to Isil territory in Syria. The town is known to harbour Isil sympathisers and the porous border is easy to cross. Her phone signal has not been traced since. 
  
 The French authorities only passed on Boumeddiene’s name to Istanbul on January 9. Turkish officials say there is no evidence any of the other attackers passed through Turkey. 
  
 11.25 Le Monde says there are rumours the Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu may go to Jewish supermarket but it must stressed, there is no confirmation from Israeli embassy in Paris. 
  
 11.18 More from Rory Mulholland about the Charles de Gaulle news mentioned earlier. 
  
 An airport spokesman told the Telegraph that there was no terror threat at Charles de Gaulle and that the heavy police presence was due to the arrival in Paris of foreign heads of state to attend the march to commemorate the victims of the Charlie Hebdo massacre. 
  
 11.14 The Telegraph's picture desk has created this gallery entitled: Crowds join 'Unity' march for Charlie Hebdo attacks, in pictures 
  
 People lay flowers and candles close to the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris as people gather for the start of a huge march which will end at the Place de la Nation 
  
 A man dressed as the Statue of Liberty holds up the French national flag at the Place de la Republique in Paris 
  
 11.10 Last night, five people detained in connection with the terror attacks were released from custody, the Paris prosecutors' spokesman said. The five were freed from custody late on Saturday 
  
 Family members of the attackers have been given preliminary charges, but Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre said no one was in custody. 
  
 11.07 As people gather at the site of the Kosher supermarket siege, citizens of Paris tell Alastair Good why they believe the city, and the country, should not become divided by the terrorist acts of the past days 
  
 11.04 Le Monde is reporting that Terminal A at Charles de Gaulle airport has been shut down and that armed police officers are on the roof of the building, Rory Mulholland says 
  
 10.58 The New York Times reports on Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu's, comments as he was leaving Israel to head to Paris. 
  
 As he left, Mr Netanyahu invited French Jews to move to Israel and said he would attend a second rally of the French Jewish community. 
  
 I am going to Paris in order to participate in the rally, along with world leaders, for a renewed struggle against the Islamic terrorism that is threatening all of humanity, which I have been calling for years/ 
  
 “I will say there that any Jew who wants to immigrate to Israel will be received here with open arms." 
  
 10.50 Ahead of the rally this afternoon, security ministers for the EU, including Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland, Denmark, and Sweden - and America held a meeting at France's interior ministry to work a out a joint response to the terror threat. 
  
 US Attorney General Eric Holder was also present. 
  
 10.42 Sajid Javid, the Culture Secretary, is on Sky News and said parliament needs to "make sure laws looking at communications and security services are up-to-date". It needs to be updated for "online communication," he urged. 
  
 Javid for Snoopers Charter on #murnaghan says anti-terror laws need to be "updated for online communication", tho most passed in last 10 yrs — Sunny Hundal (@sunny_hundal) January 11, 2015 
  
 On the issue of Islam and terrorism, Mr Javid said: "It's no good for people to say they're not Muslims - it's what they call themselves. 
  
 He later added: "They try to take what is a good religion and warp it for their own means." 
  
 Sajid Javid says on #murnaghan its not enough to dismiss the Paris terrorists as not Muslims, since they claim to be part of Islam — Sunny Hundal (@sunny_hundal) January 11, 2015 
  
 He also said: "Freedom of speech is vital to any democratic society. What a newspaper, TV channel does, it's up to them, nothing to do with the government. 
  
 "People can object but it's not for any government to tell any organisation what to do." 
  
 10.32 A funeral service for Ahmed Merabet, the French Muslim police officer, killed during the Charlie Hebdo attack on Wednesday along with 11 others, has been held. 
  
 Hommage Républicain rendu au policier Ahmed Merabet à Livry-Gargan en présence de membres de la famille. #SSD93 pic.twitter.com/MHumtm3aL5 — Claude Bartolone (@claudebartolone) January 11, 2015 
  
 On Wednesday, footage released after the attack showed the officer lying wounded on the pavement. As the gunmen moved closer, they asked the 42-year-old: "Do you want to kill us?" 
  
 Am now at funeral of French policeman Ahmed Merabet, killed by #CharieHebdo attackers. Couple of 1000 ppl pay respect pic.twitter.com/JX5w2C0Jup — Harald Doornbos (@HaraldDoornbos) January 11, 2015 
  
 Moment of silence. Every1 holding hands in solidarity. Then French National anthem. 'thank u& goodbye' Ahmed Merabet pic.twitter.com/EvkK3YIAi1 — Jenan Moussa (@jenanmoussa) January 11, 2015 
  
 10.21 More from Martin Evans in Dammartin-en-Groele: 
  
 This is the scene in Dammartin-en-Groele where tens of thousands of people have turned out for a unity rally. It seems like the whole town are here. They are singing La Marseillaise and chanting "Je Suis Charlie". 
  
 10.18 It's not just in Paris where people gather to remember and honour the victims. In this photo, members of Sydney's French community gather in the heart of the city to pay tribute to the Paris jihadist attack victims holding sheets of paper with the words: "Freedom" and "Je Suis Charlie". 
  
 10.17 The terrorists behind the Charlies Hebdo attacks have offended the values of Islam "more than the cartoons ever did", Britain's first Muslim cabinet minister said, writes Steven Swinford. 
  
 Baroness Warsi, the former foreign minister, said that her faith has been "hugely damaged" by the "brutal slaughter in Paris", which she said has "rightly been portrayed as an attack on free speech". 
  
 She said that while she personally finds cartoons satirising her religion offensive and "unsavoury", freedom of expression is more important. 
  
 In an article for The Sun on Sunday she said: "I cannot say I understand why a satirical magazine could drive anyone to mass murder. As a person of faith and as a Muslim, I know the values and reputation of my faith – any faith – cannot be diminished by a cartoon. 
  
 10.10 After meeting with the French president, François Hollande, Roger Cukierman, president of the Representative Council of Jewish Institutions in France, said Jewish schools and synagogues would be protected by the French army "if necessary". 
  
 "He told us that all the schools, all the synagogues will be protected, if necessary, on top of the police, by the army," said. 
  
 Mr Hollande will also visit the Grand Synagogue of Paris after the march, Mr Cukierman said. 
  
 10.05 People gather in Saint-Denis-de-la-Reunion on the French overseas island of La Reunion 
  
 10.02 Crowds are already starting to gather across Paris, and in Dammartin as Martin Evans shares below: 
  
 This is the scene in Dammartin-en-Groele this morning where the whole town has turned out for a unity march pic.twitter.com/CVoazWgJIq — Martin Evans (@evansma) January 11, 2015 
  
 09.56 Paris supermarket siege witness: ’It was like the end of the world’ 
  
 Trapped in his flat inside the police cordon, witness Ian Ayres watched the deadly end to the Paris supermarket siege, he tells Alastair Good. 
  
 09.49 A video has emerged online showing Paris supermarket killer Amedy Coulibaly pledging allegiance to Isil, reports Henry Samuel. 
  
 The Senegalese-born Frenchman justifies his actions in footage filmed some time before this week's atrocity. 
  
 Coulibaly was shot dead by police on Friday after holding a dozen people hostage in a Kosher supermarket. 
  
 During the hostage siege, he killed four people named by the French Board of Jewish Deputies as Yoav Hattab, Philippe Braham, Yohan Cohen and Francois-Michel Saada. 
  
 French police have launched in an intensive search for Coulibaly's wife Hayat Boumeddiene, describing her as "armed and dangerous". 
  
 More to follow. 
  
 09.40 The 17 victims from the Paris terror attacks: (Top row) Charb, Georges Wolinski, Jean Cabut (aka Cabu), Bernard Maris and Tignous (middle row) Elsa Cayat, Frederic Boisseau, Ahmed Merabet, Franck Brinsolaro, Philippe Honore aka Honore and Mustapha Ourrad (bottom row) Yohan Cohen, Yoav Hattab, Philippe Braham, Francois Saada, Michel Renaud and Clarissa Jean-Philippe. 
  
 09.37 More details have emerged of Philippe Braham one of the four victims killed in the Jewish supermarket, reports Ben Farmer. 
  
 The father of four worked was a computer engineer who had worked as an insurance agent close to the supermarket. 
  
 Philippe Braham was a father of four, with one child was from his first marriage and three from his second marriage to Valerie, his brother-in-law, Shai Ben David told the Israeli news site, Ynet. 
  
 The couple had suffered another family tragedy three years ago with the death of their first son. 
  
 "This was an incomprehensible tragedy for my sister. She survived only thanks to his strength," Mr Ben-David said. 
  
 Mr Braham was described as an observant Jew who attended the synagogue in Montrouge, a Parisian suburb. His brother is the rabbi of the synagogue in Pantin, another suburb of Paris. 
  
 Mr Braham had dreamed of moving to Israel. "He loved Israel. He buried his parents and son here. He was an observant man who never harmed anyone. He visited Israel many times, the last time was several months ago to bury his mother," Mr Ben-David said. 
  
 Refael Braham, Philippe's 14-year-old son from his first marriage, was in Israel when he learned of his father's death. 
  
 "He was very close to his father and took it really hard," the head of the French aliyah project in the Netanya municipality told Ynet. "He has been crying and refusing to believe he lost his father." 
  
 Refael said: "Dad went to the supermarket to shop for Shabbat. When I was with him (in France), we'd go shopping together quite often. If I hadn't made aliyah to Israel, I might have gone with him this time as well and gotten hurt." 
  
 09.18 BBC reports that as a tribute to those killed in the attacks, London landmarks such as Tower Bridge, Trafalgar Square, and the National Gallery with be lit in blue, white and red - the colours of the French flag. 
  
 09.14 French police launched in an intensive search for Hayat Boumeddiene, the 26-year-old partner of one of the attackers, describing her as "armed and dangerous". 
  
 She is the wife of Amedy Coulibaly, responsible for the attack on the Kosher supermarket. During the hostage siege, he killed four people named by the French Board of Jewish Deputies as Yoav Hattab, Philippe Braham, Yohan Cohen and Francois-Michel Saada. 
  
 A source familiar with the situation said Boumeddiene left France last week and travelled to Syria via Turkey. A senior Turkish official corroborated that account, saying she passed through Istanbul on Jan. 2. 
  
 A senior Turkish security official said Paris and Ankara were now cooperating in trying to trace her but that she had arrived in Istanbul without any warning from France. 
  
 "We think she is in Syria at the moment but we do not have any evidence about that. She is most probably not in Turkey," the Turkish source said 
  
 09.02 When François Hollande joins the mass "unity march" today in Paris, it will be only the second time since World War II that a French head of state has joined a street protest, reports Rory Mulholland. 
  
 The last time was when president François Mitterrand, a Socialist like Mr Hollande, discreetly slipped into the crowd at a rally in May 1990. 
  
 That demo was against racism and anti-Semitism. 
  
 08.58 In an unprecedented show of unity, the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian Authority will both attend the rally to honour the victims of three days of bloodshed, AFP reports. 
  
 Along with Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas, the king and queen of Jordan will be present at the rally. 
  
 08.57 The US secretary of state, John Kerry, vowed that no act of terror would halt "the march of freedom" as he expressed solidarity with the people of France after last week's Islamist attacks, AFP reports. Mr Kerry is currently in India. 
  
 "We stand together this morning with the people of France. We stand together not just in anger and outrage but in solidarity and commitment in confronting extremists. 
  
 "No act of terror will ever stop the march of freedom." 
  
 08.46 Israeli and French media report the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, foreign minister, Avigdor Lieberman and economy minister Naftali Bennett will attend today's rally. 
  
 08.37 Reuters reports on an arson attack on the German newspaper, Hamburger Morgenpost. The paper, like many others in the country, printed the cartoons from Charlie Hebdo, the satirical magazine which was subject to a deadly attack in which 12 people were killed. 
  
 A police spokesman said that an incendiary device was thrown at the newspaper building in the night and documents were burned inside. Two suspects were arrested near the crime scene because they behaved in an unusual manner, she added. 
  
 The newspaper said on its web page that there were no people inside the building when the attack happened. Whether the arson attack was connected to the Charlie Hebdo cartoons was still under investigation, the paper added. 
  
 08.34 The march doesn't begin in Place de la Republique until 3pm, but already people are milling around in the grand square at the heart of Paris, reports Harriet Alexander. 
  
 Groups of people are wandering around reading all the signs and looking at the mosaics created on the ground out of pens and candles. Some artistic souls have even stretched cling film between two lamp posts and drawn a series of tribute cartoons on the plastic. 
  
 Three women have brought along the French tricolour flag, and are wandering around waving it slowly. 
  
 08.29 France's Sunday front pages and a Je Suis Charlie poster, published in Le Parisien for those joining today's huge march for the Republic to hold aloft. 
  
 08.24 The Prime Minister, David Cameron, is on his way to Paris, Sky News reports. Angela Merkel is also due to attend. 
  
 Prime Minister David Cameron says he's on his way to #Paris "to march with the French people" as thousands are to gather at solidarity march — Sky News Newsdesk (@SkyNewsBreak) January 11, 2015 
  
 08.20 Today in numbers: 5,500 military police, 'dozens of snipers', all of the Paris police helicopter fleet will be in the air. €0 - price of all RER and Paris Metro journeys, all day. 
  
 08.19 Some of France's most celebrated artists and celebrities also lend their support to today's huge gathering, reports Patrick Sawer. 
  
 They include the Algerian-born singer Enrico Macias, the actress Frederique Bel and TV presenter Karine Le Marchande, who said: "I want to act so that we don't surrender. Our freedom to think, to express ourselves and to laugh are our greatest resources and they are in danger." 
  
 Le Journal du Dimanche reports on the broad spectrum of political and religious opinion backing the march - with all but the far-Right Front National in attendance. 
  
 Amar Lasfar, president of the Union of French Islamic Organisations, tells the paper: "This march will demonstrate that France is one and indivisible. Muslims are like all other French citizens, independent of their religion. The terrorists want to create a divide between Muslims and the rest of our society. But we are French and Muslim." 
  
 Former French World Cup winner Lilian Thuram, the most capped footballer in the country's history, has travelled to Paris especially to join the march. 
  
 He told Le Journal du Dimanche: "It's vital that we support the victims and that we don't sink into fear. To defend society we need to build solidarity." 
  
 08.10 Turnout is expected to be significant after smaller 'pre-gatherings' across France gathered unprecedented crowds, in excess of 100,000 in some cities. 
  
  
  
 Map showing rallies on Saturday, January 10, 2015 
  
 08.10 Unity in the face of terror is the overriding theme of the day for France, it's people and the French media on Sunday, writes Patrick Sawer in Paris. 
  
 Most of the French press concentrates on preparations for today's March for the Republic, which is anticipated to draw as many as a million people to the centre of Paris to express their outrage at the attacks which left so many dead. 
  
 The papers all report on the impressive dress rehearsals for today's march, with an estimated 700,000 people having already demonstrated against terrorism on Saturday in some of France's major regional centres, including Nantes, Marseille and Toulouse. 
  
 Alag Bunyamin, a 45-year-old Muslim building worker from Paris's 11th arrondissement, where the jihadist attack on the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo took place on Wednesday, tells Le Parisien he is marching on Sunday to "show solidarity with the France which opened its doors to him 25 years ago". 
  
 Katia Ben Mohand, 21, a children's activities organisor from Saint Denis, said she was marching to fight "the climate of fear and suspicion of all Muslims" which she says has gripped France. Henriette Leclerq, 85, from Sevres, who lived through the war and the Resistance against the Nazis, and said: "Today we have to mount a resistance against those who threaten our freedoms." 
  
 08.06 On Saturday, the interior minister, Bernard Cazaeneuve, said the march will be unique. "A tribute to the victims of terrorist bullets." 
  
 Yesterday, the far-Right Front National lashed out at the government for not inviting its president Marine Le Pen to join national political leaders in the Paris march. 
  
 08.03 More information from Rory Mulholland on the rally: 
  
 David Cameron and Angela Merkel will walk side by side with French President François Hollande and more than two dozen other leaders on Sunday to show solidarity in the wake of the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Jewish grocery store that left 17 dead. 
  
 As they march, 150 plain clothes detectives will mingle with the crowd to protect them and a "vast security perimeter" will be enforced, with metro stations and roads around the centre of Paris closed. 
  
  
  
 The intended route of today's march 
  
 08.00 Good morning. Welcome to the Telegraph's live coverage of the aftermath of the shootings which have rocked Paris. As the French nation and the world reels from the attacks which killed 17 people and injured many, we'll be bringing updates of the latest reaction and the Unity rally in Paris today. 
  
 Up to one million people could attend the rally to remember the victims and heroes. Interior minister, Bernard Cazaeneuve, has said more than 5,500 police officers and soldiers will be present. 
  
 The French president, Francois Hollande, will of course attend and he will be joined by David Cameron, the UK Prime Minister, as well as Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, as well as Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi. 
  
 The Spanish prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, is also expected to attend as well as Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkey's prime minister - and also one of the most high profile Muslim leaders to attend. ||||| Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Thousands Gather to Support Victims of Charlie Hebdo Attack The manhunt intensified for the masked men who stormed the Paris offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday, killing 12 people. People gathered Thursday in Paris and around the world for a moment of silence in support of the victims. fullscreen Police secure a neighborhood northeast of Paris on Thursday amid a manhunt for two brothers who allegedly killed 12 people in an attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine. Reuters … Parisians gather in front of Notre Dame Cathedral on Thursday for a minute of silence in the wake of the deadly shooting. Many people held pens to symbolize solidarity with Charlie Hebdo’s staff. Jacky Naegelen/Reuters … The French community in Sydney holds a vigil for the victims of the Paris attack. The vigil took place near where two hostages were killed by a gunman at a Sydney cafe last month. Peter Parks/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … Journalists hold ‘I am Charlie’ placards and their press cards during a minute of silence in front of the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo on Thursday. French police intensified their manhunt for the two brothers suspected of killing 12 people. Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters … A mother and son hold ‘Je Suis Charlie’ placards as they take part in a vigil outside the French consulate in Istanbul on Thursday. Sedat Suna/European Pressphoto Agency … Members of Parliament stand in London’s Westminster Hall holding pens in solidarity with those affected by the Charlie Hebdo massacre. Tim Sculthorpe/Associated Press … Photos of Cherif Kouachi, left, and his brother Said Kouachi, released by French police in Paris early Thursday. The brothers are suspects in the shooting at French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday, which killed 12 people. French Police/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … Members of the French national police intervention group prepare their gear in front of Paris's police headquarters on Thursday. Eric Feferberg/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A man holds a placard that reads ‘I am Charlie,’ as people gather in Brussels on Thursday during a minute of silence for the victims of the shooting. François Lenoir/Reuters … People take part in a rally at the Place de la République in Paris supporting the victims of the terrorist attack. Thierry Chesnot/Getty Images … Forensic police officers look for evidence relating to the three suspects of the shooting attack. Yoan Valat/European Pressphoto Agency … People gather in support of the victims of the attack in Paris. Thibault Camus/Associated Press … A woman cries as she holds up a pen during a vigil in Lyon, France. Jeff Pachoud/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A man holds a placard reading ‘I am Charlie’ as he attends a vigil in Paris at the Place de la République. Youssef Boudlal/Reuters … People light candles during a gathering in support for the victims near European Union headquarters in Brussels. Geert Vanden Wijngaert/Associated Press … People hold up pens in the southern French city of Marseille on Wednesday as they take part in a gathering following the attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo. Boris Horvat/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A candlelight vigil drew thousands to the Place de la République in central Paris hours after the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices. Ian Langsdon/European Pressphoto Agency … People hold signs reading ‘I am Charlie’ during a silent gathering in Nice, France. Sebastien Nogier/European Pressphoto Agency … People gather at the Place Royale in Nantes, France, on Wednesday to show their solidarity with the victims of the attack. Georges Gobet/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A woman holds up a sign that reads ‘I am Charlie’ at the Place de la République in Paris on Wednesday. Joel Saget/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … An investigating police officer takes photos outside the door of the magazine’s offices. Francois Mori/Associated Press … French President François Hollande, center, arrives at the offices of Charlie Hebdo following the attack. Shown to the right is Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve. Etienne Laurent/European Pressphoto Agency … A video screenshot image of masked gunmen shooting a police officer. … Firefighters, police officers and forensic investigators gather in front of the magazine’s offices. Wednesday’s shootings rank as one of the deadliest attacks in Paris in decades. Martin Bureau/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … People hug each other outside the offices of Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday. Remy de la Mauviniere/Associated Press … A police car was riddled with bullets in Wednesday’s attack. STR/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A tow truck lifts the car said to have been used by the gunmen who attacked the offices of Charlie Hebdo. Dominique Faget/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … Armed men face police officers near the magazine’s offices. Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … Firefighters carry an injured man on a stretcher in front of Charlie Hebdo’s offices. French President Hollande said four people are ‘between life and death.’ Philippe Dupeyrat/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … Firefighters and police officers gather in front of the Charlie Hebdo offices. The magazine was also attacked in November 2011, hours before a special issue of the magazine featuring the Prophet Muhammad appeared on newsstands. Philippe Dupeyrat/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … A victim of Wednesday’s attack is evacuated by stretcher. Martin Bureau/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images … of SHOW CAPTION HIDE CAPTION fullscreen of 
  
 PARIS—Masked gunmen stormed the offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday, killing a dozen people and decimating a newsroom that long took pride in defying the outrage—and death threats—stirred by its caricatures lampooning Islam. 
  
 The brutal rampage shocked a nation that has been living in dread of reprisal attacks since joining the fight against Islamist insurgents in Africa and the Middle East. The attack—by gunmen armed with AK-47 rifles—triggered an outpouring of public anger at home and expressions of solidarity from around the world. 
  
 French authorities late Wednesday identified three suspects, all Frenchmen: Said Kouachi, 34 years old; his brother Cherif Kouachi, 32; and 18-year-old Hamid Mourad. 
  
 (Latest: Charlie Hebdo puts Muhammad on cover of post-attack issue). 
  
 Police deployed a vast dragnet with hundreds of officers to conduct a manhunt, searching an apartment in the eastern French city of Reims. 
  
 As France deals with the brutal attack at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo that left 12 people dead, police hunt for two of the gunmen. 
  
 Early on Thursday, officials said Mr. Mourad had turned himself into police at the eastern town of Charleville-Mézières and was in custody. Police also released photos of the brothers and issued an appeal for information on them. 
  
 It is unclear whether the gunmen acted alone or were part of a broader organization. But they appeared to have planned the attack and to have been motivated by radical Islamist beliefs. 
  
 French television showed footage of two men wearing balaclavas leaving Charlie Hebdo’s offices shouting in French: “We have avenged Prophet Muhammad. We have killed Charlie Hebdo.” 
  
 The gunmen also shouted “Allahu akbar,” or “God is great,” according to a witness cited by Paris prosecutor François Molins. 
  
 The carnage began around 11 a.m. local time. At least two gunmen dressed in black and wearing ski masks first inadvertently stepped into the wrong building before they stormed the offices of Charlie Hebdo in eastern Paris near Place de la Bastille. 
  
 After gunning down a receptionist, the men climbed to the second floor, where reporters and cartoonists were in the midst of their weekly editorial meeting, Mr. Molins, the Paris prosecutor, told reporters. 
  
 In a burst of gunfire, they killed eight staffers, one guest and a police officer serving as bodyguard to Stéphane Charbonnier, the magazine’s editor in chief, who had been threatened before, the prosecutor said. 
  
 Employees of a TV production company that has offices on the same floor called police upon hearing the shots. 
  
 The two men, possibly accompanied by a third person, got into a black car parked in front of the building and drove off, Mr. Molins said. In the next street, they ran into several police patrols, and exchanged gunfire. 
  
 One policeman was wounded and lay on the sidewalk. Two of the gunmen got out of the car and calmly moved toward the officer, according to video footage captured by neighbors and shown on French television. 
  
 After killing twelve people in an attack on a French magazine, two of three armed gunman remain at large. WSJ's Jason Bellini reports. Image: Facebook/Jordi Mir 
  
 “You wanted to kill us,” one of the gunmen shouts. “No, we’re good, boss,” the policeman says, showing his empty hands. 
  
 One of the gunmen comes near and shoots him at close range. The assailant flees with his accomplice; the officer, who authorities later identified as Ahmed Merabet, dies. 
  
 The group headed north but crashed into another car. A few blocks away they hit a sidewalk post and abandoned their damaged vehicle, then seized another one before vanishing northeast of the city. 
  
 At Charlie Hebdo, the newsroom had turned into a horror scene: “There was blood all over the stairway,” said Luc Hermann, whose TV production firm shares part of the second floor with the magazine. 
  
 When it was over, some of France’s most prominent cartoonists were dead, including Jean Cabut, a graphic artist known by his pen name Cabu, Mr. Charbonnier, known as Charb, and Georges Wolinski, the police said. 
  
 Charlie Hebdo’s Covers: A History of Irreverence The French satirical magazine targeted in Wednesday’s terrorist attack in Paris, has lampooned a wide array of religious, political and artistic figures since its inception. fullscreen In November 1970, following the death of Charles de Gaulle at his home in Colombey-les-Deux-Églises, the weekly—then known as ‘Hara-Kiri Hebdo’—bore the headline ‘Tragic Dance at Colombey: 1 Dead,’ in a reference to a fire at a dance club earlier that month in which 146 people were killed. The Interior Ministry promptly banned distribution of the magazine to minors. … In September 2012, French movie ‘The Intouchables,’ about the friendship between a wealthy paralyzed French man and his live-in caregiver. was used to show a Jewish and a Muslim man, both saying ‘Don’t poke fun.’ … In this undated image of a cover, characters representing Judaism, Catholicism and Islam are shown saying ‘Charlie Hebdo must be veiled!’ … In 2009, following Michael Jackson’s death, the cover headline reads ‘Michael Jackson, Finally White.’ … Following the slashing of Andres Serrano’s photograph ‘Piss Christ’ at an exhibit in the city of Avignon by French Catholics who said it was blasphemous, Charlie Hebdo ran a cover in April 2011 reading ‘After the Scandal of the ‘Piss Christ’ in Avignon, All Religions Into the Toilet!’ … In June 2013, Charlie Hebdo targeted French far-right party the National Front. On the cover, Charlie Hebdo shows a caricature of the party’s leader astride a gold horse, in reference to the statue of St. Joan of Arc in Paris. She says ‘Skinheads? I don’t know any.’ … of SHOW CAPTION HIDE CAPTION fullscreen of 
  
 “It is too much, it’s unbearable, abominable, inhuman,” cartoonist Maurice Sinet, who worked for more than 20 years at Charlie Hebdo, said by email. “I have no words to describe how devastated and sad I am.” 
  
 President François Hollande rushed to the scene, calling the shooting a terror attack and “an act of exceptional barbarity,” while ordering tightened security around Paris. 
  
 Charlie Hebdo has often put France’s secular dogma to the test, poking fun at everything that represented power and authority, including organized religion. But many Muslims viewed its cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, published on several occasions, as provocative or even blasphemous. 
  
 In 2011, its offices were struck by arson, hours before a special issue of the weekly—dubbed “Shariah Hebdo”—was published. After that, the weekly moved to a new location that was guarded by police. 
  
 The attack adds to already high terrorism concerns in Europe at a time when France and the U.K. are fighting alongside the U.S. against Islamic State insurgents in Iraq and Syria. France has also deployed forces in the Sahara in a bid to crush radical groups there. 
  
 The shootings could reverberate more broadly across Europe, where anti-immigration politicians—including Marine Le Pen in France—are gaining popularity among voters hit by mass unemployment and a sense of social unraveling. 
  
 ENLARGE 
  
 The assault ranks as one of the deadliest attacks in Paris in decades, surpassing the death toll from a 1995 bombing at the Saint-Michel subway station that killed eight. Mr. Hollande designated Thursday a day of mourning and said flags would be flown at half-staff for three days nationwide. 
  
 The attack came on a busy shopping day in Paris with the start of winter sales that typically attract large numbers of tourists. Security at media organizations, department stores, public transportation and places of worship was being reinforced, said the office of Prime Minister Manuel Valls. 
  
 Mr. Hollande said several terrorist attacks have been prevented in recent weeks. “We knew we were under threat, like other countries in the world,” he said. “We are under threat because we are a country of freedom, and because we are a country of freedom we ward off threats and will punish aggressors.” 
  
 Last month, three violent incidents in three days across France left one person dead, dozens injured and French leaders calling on people to remain calm. 
  
 One is being investigated by antiterrorism prosecutors, and authorities said the other two cases appeared to involve mentally unstable individuals. 
  
 ENLARGE The front page of the latest issue of Charlie Hebdo has a cartoon of French writer Michel Houellebecq, whose latest book “Soumission,” imagines a France run by a Muslim president. In the drawing, he predicts “In 2015 I will lose my teeth” and “In 2022 I will do Ramadan,” referring to the Muslim holy month. European Pressphoto Agency 
  
 President Barack Obama was among world leaders to denounce what he called the “cowardly, evil attacks.” 
  
 “The fact that this was an attack on journalists, an attack on our free press, also underscores the degree to which these terrorists fear freedom of speech,” Mr. Obama told reporters at the White House. 
  
 Paris was far from under lockdown, however. Thousands of people poured into the Place de la République, close to the magazine’s office, for an impromptu rally with handwritten signs such as “I am Charlie” or “We are all Charlie.” 
  
 In 2012, France closed embassies and French schools in 20 countries after the weekly published a series of satirical prophet cartoons. 
  
 In 2006, the paper reprinted images of Muhammad that had appeared in a Danish magazine a year before. The next year, it published a picture of Muhammad crying, with the tagline “It’s hard to be loved by idiots.” The Grand Mosque of Paris and the Union of Islamic Organizations of France filed slander charges, but a French court cleared the paper. 
  
 As police secure the area around the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, family members and journalists look to find answers. WSJ’s Noémie Bisserbe reports from the scene. Photo: Getty Images 
  
 The last tweet on Charlie Hebdo’s Twitter feed, posted Wednesday morning, shows a cartoon drawing of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi giving his best wishes for 2015. “Best wishes by the way,” the tweet reads. “And health above all,” Mr. al-Baghdadi is portrayed as saying in the cartoon. 
  
 On the cover of Wednesday’s edition, the weekly featured French writer Michel Houellebecq, whose latest book “Soumission,” imagines a France run by a Muslim president. “In 2022 I will do Ramadan,” the writer says in the drawing. 
  
 Also in the issue, a cartoon by Mr. Charbonnier carries a headline saying “Still no attacks in France,” and showing a jihadist soldier carrying an AK-47 warning: “Wait! We’ve got until the end of January to convey our wishes.” 
  
 —Ruth Bender, Jason Chow and Bryon Tau contributed to this article. 
  
 Corrections & Amplifications 
  
 A graphic that accompanied an earlier version of this article showing the sequence of events, including a clash with police near the Porte de Pantin, has been updated to reflect the latest account from police. 
  
 Write to Inti Landauro at inti.landauro@wsj.com and David Gauthier-Villars at David.Gauthier-Villars@wsj.com ||||| PARIS (AP) — Masked gunmen stormed the Paris offices of a satirical newspaper Wednesday, killing 12 people before escaping, in France's deadliest terror attack in at least two decades. 
  
 An injured person is treated by nursing staff outside the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. France has raised its alert to the highest level after what... (Associated Press) 
  
 French President Francois Hollande leaves the Elysee Palace after a shooting at a French satirical newspaper, in Paris, France, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Police official says 11 dead in shooting at French... (Associated Press) 
  
 People stand outside the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office after a shooting, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Masked gunmen stormed the offices of a French satirical newspaper Wednesday,... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured person is transported to an ambulance after a shooting, at the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Masked gunmen stormed the offices of a French... (Associated Press) 
  
 Police officers and firemen gather outside the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Masked gunmen stormed the offices of a French satirical newspaper... (Associated Press) 
  
 Police officers and firemen gather outside the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Masked gunmen stormed the offices of a French satirical newspaper Wednesday,... (Associated Press) 
  
 French President Francois Hollande leaves the Elysee Palace after a shooting at a French satirical newspaper, in Paris, France, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Police official says 11 dead in shooting at French... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured person is evacuated outside the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015. Police official says 11 dead in shooting at the French satirical newspaper.... (Associated Press) 
  
 French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, center left, and Paris' mayor Anne Hidalgo, center right, arrive at the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015.... (Associated Press) 
  
 French President Francois Hollande said the attack on the Charlie Hebdo weekly, which has frequently drawn condemnation from Muslims, is "a terrorist attack, without a doubt," and said several other attacks have been thwarted in France "in recent weeks." 
  
 France raised its alert to the highest level, and reinforced security at houses of worship, stores, media offices and transportation. Top government officials were holding an emergency meeting. 
  
 Paris prosecutor's spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre confirmed 12 people were killed. 
  
 Luc Poignant, an official of the SBP police union, said the attackers escaped in two vehicles. A witness, Benoit Bringer, told the iTele network he saw multiple masked men armed with automatic weapons at the newspaper's office in central Paris. 
  
 The extremist Islamic State group has threatened to attack France, and minutes before the attack Charlie Hebdo had tweeted a satirical cartoon of that extremist group's leader giving New Year's wishes. Charlie Hebdo has been repeatedly threatened for publishing caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, among other controversial sketches, and its offices were firebombed in 2011. 
  
 The 2011 firebombing came after a spoof issue featuring a caricature of the Prophet Muhammad on its cover. Nearly a year later, the publication again published crude Muhammad caricatures, drawing denunciations around the Muslim world. 
  
 Wednesday's attack comes the same day of the release of a book by a celebrated French novelist depicting France's election of its first Muslim president. Hollande had been due to meet with the country's top religious officials later in the day. ||||| What term do you want to search? Search with google |||||