Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
  
 Police are warning people not to dress as clowns and scare people in the street as bizarre craze sweeps the region. 
  
 There have been several sightings of clowns across Greater Manchester and Cheshire with reports on social media that some are scaring people in the street. 
  
 A spokesman for GMP said the force received a call at about 8.35pm Thursday after children were scared by people with clown masks in Park Road, Stretford. 
  
 He said: “We received a call at 8.35pm saying that somebody was pulling up to people while driving a car wearing a clown mask.” 
  
 On Facebook, Nicola Ince said: “A white car with peeps dressed as clowns driving round Stretford have just chased my girls and left them petrified on Park Rd. 
  
 “If anyone is out and about and knows of the same thing report it please.” 
  
 Why are we all so afraid of clowns? 
  
 The M.E.N. previously reported on how a ‘scary clown’ was spotted in Ashton-under-Lyne, and there were also reported sightings in Leigh. 
  
 Officers in neighbouring Cheshire revealed they have received a small number of reports, and declared it unacceptable for people to dress up as clowns to scare others. 
  
 A spokesman said: “We are aware of the current trend in America of people dressing up as clowns, which has reached the UK and received some publicity in the media. 
  
 “We have received a very small number of reports relating to this phenomenon, here in Cheshire, and we’re also aware of rumours that are circulating on social media. 
  
 “While we appreciate Halloween is just a short time away, scaring people - especially children and vulnerable people - in this way is completely unacceptable and could constitute an offence. 
  
 “Anyone who sees any suspicious activity, or who has been intimated or upset by this behaviour, should call Cheshire police immediately on 101.” 
  
 Parents claim children left terrified and in tears by clowns 'scaring pupils outside schools' 
  
 Worried parents took to the M.E.N.’s Facebook page to speak out over the craze. 
  
 Samantha Yessam said: “Why would someone buzz off scaring people. I don’t find it funny at all.” 
  
 Elaine Bailey said: “My daughter had trouble sleeping after hearing about this yesterday! 
  
 “She thought they make break in our house when we’re asleep! 
  
 “I had to reassure her and say they’d have to go through me first, your totally safe sweet!” 
  
 Kimberley Hand said: “My child was petrified to walk to school on his own today we spend all our time telling them there aren’t such things as evil clowns - so pack it in you idiots its not brave making kids feel scared.” ||||| LONDON (AP) — British police have warned about people in clown outfits acting suspiciously and sometimes wielding knives as they follow people. 
  
 The warning Saturday follows a string of incidents in recent days in an apparent effort to copy clown-related threats in the United States. 
  
 Police in Gloucestershire said there have been six reports of clowns acting suspiciously and sometimes in a threatening way. Police say no arrests have been made because the people dressed as clowns have left the scene before police arrived. 
  
 The incidents in Gloucestershire followed earlier reports of disturbances in other parts of Britain. 
  
 Police said a masked man with a knife jumped out and threatened children in Durham on Friday and that several people dressed as clowns chased a young boy the day before in Suffolk. |||||