Vaccinations against HPV have been on the rise in recent years (AFP Photo/JOE RAEDLE) 
  
 Washington (AFP) - The number of cancers associated with the human papillomavirus (HPV) is on the rise in the United States, reaching nearly 39,000 each year, a government report said Thursday. 
  
 The case estimate by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention spanned 2008 to 2012, and was higher than the just over 33,000 seen yearly from 2004 to 2008. 
  
 HPV cancers are commonly found in the genital areas of men and women, as well as the cervix, head, neck, and throat. 
  
 The cancers described in the report included nearly 11,700 cases of cervical cancer in women, and more than 12,600 cases of oral cancer among men. 
  
 Vaccines exist to prevent HPV, which is a common sexually transmitted infection, and are available to both boys and girls from age 11. 
  
 However, many teens do not get the vaccine, which is typically delivered in three doses. 
  
 Among adolescent girls aged 13-17 in 2014, just 60 percent received one dose and 40 percent received all three, said the CDC report. 
  
 Among boys, the vaccine rate was even lower, with 42 percent receiving one dose and 22 percent receiving all three. 
  
 "CDC scientists stress that 28,500 cases of HPV-caused cancer could be prevented by HPV vaccine," the federal agency said. 
  
 "Cervical cancer screening can find pre-cancers before they develop into cancer." 
  
 Electra Paskett, co-director of the Cancer Control Research Program at The Ohio State University, described the current vaccination rates in the United States as "extremely sad." 
  
 "In order to increase HPV vaccination rates, we must change the perception of the HPV vaccine from something that prevents a sexually transmitted disease to a vaccine that prevents cancer," said Paskett. 
  
 "This is better than a cancer cure -- it's cancer prevention." ||||| The number of cancers associated with the sexually transmitted human papillomavirus (HPV) continues to rise in the United States, even though most cases could be prevented with the HPV vaccine, according to new government research released today. 
  
 The report from the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention found that HPV-associated cancers increased to an average of nearly 39,000 cases a year during the period from 2008 to 2012. 
  
 An analysis from the previous five years showed fewer than 33,500 such cancers were diagnosed annually. 
  
 The most common HPV-associated cancers in the study were cervical cancers in females and mouth and throat cancers in men. 
  
 Fewer children getting HPV shot than other vaccines 
  
 Almost 80 percent of the cancer cases in the study were directly attributable to HPV, including approximately 19,200 cancer diagnoses in females and 11,600 diagnoses in males. 
  
 Furthermore, the researchers found that the majority of the cases -- about 28,500 -- involved the types of HPV that are preventable with a vaccine. 
  
 However, experts say public perceptions of vaccines -- particularly the HPV vaccine -- need to change in order to get these numbers down. 
  
 "In order to increase HPV vaccination rates, we must change the perception of the HPV vaccine from something that prevents a sexually transmitted disease to a vaccine that prevents cancer," Electra Paskett, co-director of the Cancer Control Research Program at the Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center in Columbus, told HealthDay. 
  
 "Every parent should ask the question: If there was a vaccine I could give my child that would prevent them from developing six different cancers, would I give it to them? The answer would be a resounding yes -- and we would have a dramatic decrease in HPV-related cancers across the globe," she added. 
  
 The study, published in the July 8 issue of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, was based on an analysis of national cancer registries. 
  
 A further breakdown of the data showed that whites had higher rates of oral and throat cancers than blacks and Hispanics. However, rates of cervical cancer were higher among blacks and Hispanics. 
  
 The CDC recommends the HPV vaccine be given to preteen boys and girls at age 11 or 12 so they are protected before ever being exposed to the virus. The vaccine is given in a series of three shots, with the second given one or two months after the first and the third given six months after the first. 
  
 "Full vaccination coverage of the U.S. population could prevent future HPV-attributable cancers and potentially reduce racial and ethnic disparities in HPV-associated cancer incidence," the authors concluded. "Ongoing surveillance for HPV-associated cancers using high-quality population-based registries is needed to monitor trends in cancer incidence that might result from increasing use of HPV vaccines and changes in cervical cancer screening practices." ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 / Updated By Felix Gussone, MD 
  
 The number of cancers related to HPV has dramatically increased, a new government report finds. But too few people are receiving the best protection against the preventable and potentially deadly diseases of the cervix, head and neck: a vaccine given to pre-teens which could protect them later in life. 
  
 The number of human papilloma virus (HPV)-associated cancers in the United States has increased by 17 percent, to nearly 39,000 cases a year, according a report released Thursday from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
  
 While men cannot get HPV-linked cervical cancers, they are particularly vulnerable to HPV-related cancers of the mouth, tongue and throat, called oropharyngeal cancers. According to the new CDC report, the rates of mouth and throat cancers are more than four times higher among males than females. 
  
 "There is an epidemic of HPV-related cancers in men, specifically those of the tonsil and back of the tongue. What's really important to know is that there is no screening test for those." 
  
 Related: HPV Raises Head Cancer Risk Sevenfold, Study Finds 
  
 “In the past, people always felt that the boys needed to be vaccinated to protect the girls but, truthfully, they need to be vaccinated to protect themselves”, says Dr. Lois Ramondetta , professor of gynecologic oncology at MD Anderson Cancer Center who has made it a personal mission to educate both parents and pediatricians about HPV and the vaccine that can help stop cancer before it starts. 
  
 Ever since actor Michael Douglas announced in 2013 that he suffered from HPV-related throat cancer in 2013, people realized HPV poses a threat not only to women, but to males of all ages. 
  
 “There is an epidemic of HPV related cancers in men, specifically those of the tonsil and the back of the tongue," says Ramondetta. “What's really important to know about those is that there is no screening test for those." 
  
 A recent study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that HPV infection raises the chances of throat, mouth or tongue cancer by at least sevenfold. Experts predict that throat cancer will beat out cervical cancer as the most common HPV-related cancer by 2020. 
  
 Actor Michael Douglas, seen here with wife Catherine Zeta-Jones, said human papilloma virus (HPV) was responsible for his bout of throat cancer in 2013. VALERIE MACON / AFP/Getty Images 
  
 The most effective way to prevent that: Early vaccination. 
  
 Boys and girls are supposed to get three doses of the HPV vaccine — starting at age 11 or 12 because the vaccine works best before sexual activity begins. 
  
 “The other benefit of giving it early is that our immune response is better. And that it may last longer," Ramondetta explains. 
  
 Related: HPV Shots for Boys Could Save Millions in 'Oral Cancer' Costs 
  
 Yet the latest statistic from the CDC shows that in 2014, only 40 percent of teenage girls received all three doses of the vaccine needed. In boys, that number is even lower: Only 22 percent of boys between 13 and 17 are properly vaccinated against HPV, increasing their chances for HPV-caused cancers later in life. 
  
 “We actually know the majority of them can be prevented with the HPV9 vaccine that's out now," says Ramondetta. In fact, the new CDC study found that 93 percent of all HPV-caused cancers are preventable with existing HPV vaccines. 
  
 According to the CDC, the HPV vaccine — which is usually covered by insurance — is safe and not associated with serious side-effects of the HPV. |||||