Homemade pornography and photos of naked women inside an exam room were found in a storage unit belonging to Dr. George Tyndall, the former USC gynecologist at the center of a massive sex abuse investigation.Tyndall served as the university's gynecologist for nearly 30 years. In that time, it appeared dozens of complaints were made against Tyndall, but no action was taken until a USC investigation last year.Now more than 200 women have filed police reports accusing Tyndall of sexual misconduct that ranged from racist and sexist comments to sexual assault. police raid conducted earlier this year on the storage unit rented by Tyndall came to light Tuesday.Los Angeles police are trying to determine if the exam room those women are photographed in was on the USC campus, and if any of those women were students or faculty.One attorney representing more than 100 women suing Tyndall and USC said the university's compliance officer previously claimed the exam room photos were "related to research and clinical care."But attorney Andy Rubenstein said the discovery bolsters his case."The clinical photographs were mixed in with his homemade pornography, suggesting that Tyndall believed they were one and the same. Absent from the locker were medical charts or draft copies of research papers," he said.Tyndall's attorney said his client isn't talking to the media, but asserted the photos prove nothing."None of the items allegedly seized involved criminal conduct of any kind," he said. "Dr. Tyndall remains adamant that he engaged in no criminal conduct while employed as a physician at USC."USC officials are not talking about the photos found in the storage unit, simply saying the school has an agreement with the LAPD not to comment on the investigation."Our priority continues to be supporting our students, patients and entire university community by helping to bring resolution to this painful experience in a manner that respects the dignity and privacy of all those impacted," officials said in a statement.USC agreed to a $215 million settlement over a class action lawsuit , but attorneys suing on the state level are challenging the decision. They believe the settlement shields Tyndall and the administrators who failed to act on complaints against him during his tenure on campus. ||||| Detectives are also looking for evidence that the pictures were taken at USC. The student clinic was moved to a new facility in 2013 and the previous building torn down. Former clinic nurse Cindy Gilbert, who worked with Tyndall for years, said the LAPD questioned her at length about the old exam rooms, including the color of cabinets and the shape and upholstery of exam tables. ||||| LOS ANGELES (CBSLA) – Detectives found numerous naked photographs of women in a rental storage unit belonging to former longtime USC gynecologist Dr. George Tyndall, who is at the center of a sexual misconduct scandal which has rocked the university and involves hundreds of victims. 
  
 Some of the photos were of women who appeared to be in a medical exam room, according to a report in the Los Angeles Times Tuesday. They were found in a raid of a storage unit owned by Tyndall. 
  
 The discovery was made while L.A. police detectives were tailing the 71-year-old Tyndall, the Times reports. Their investigation began in the spring of 2017. It’s unclear exactly where the unit is located. 
  
 Police told CBSLA a search warrant was served last summer at the location, and that investigators uncovered additional evidence, but would not offer details on the ongoing investigation. 
  
 Tyndall served as the only full-time gynecologist at the USC Engemann Student Health Center for nearly 30 years. In 2016, the school began investigating him over allegations of improper pelvic exams and making racist and sexually inappropriate remarks. Former colleagues had questioned his methods of pelvic exams, specifically, his practice of digital insertion before using a speculum. 
  
 Numerous women have stated Tyndall watched them undress and proceeded to violate them during pelvic exams. 
  
 USC didn’t terminate Tyndall’s employment until June 2017. The Times had been looking into Tyndall for months prior to the university’s public acknowledgment in May of 2018 that the school had been investigating him. 
  
 Since the revelation, hundreds of women with misconduct complaints against Tyndall have come forward and filed lawsuits against the school, claiming that USC tried to cover up his sexual abuse. 
  
 As a result of the scandal, USC President C. L. Max Nikias officially resigned his position in August. Two longtime student health clinic administrators were also fired. 
  
 On Oct. 18, 93 more patients filed lawsuits against USC, bringing the total number of women who have accused Tyndall of misconduct to more than 400. 
  
 The following day, Oct. 19, USC announced it had reached a $215 million settlement in principle on a class-action lawsuit brought against Tyndall. As part of the settlement, all class-action members will receive compensation of $2,500, with some potentially receiving more. 
  
 It is unclear how many of the more than 400 patients who have accused Tyndall of misconduct will be part of the settlement for the class-action lawsuit. 
  
 Tyndall, who has maintained his innocence, has never been arrested or criminally charged. However, the L.A. County district attorney’s office is currently reviewing dozens of cases for possible sex-crimes charges. A grand jury is currently hearing evidence against Tyndall, the Times reports. |||||