Company is reportedly teaming up with a major OEM to sell iOS-powered, Apple-branded displays 
  
 If at first you don't succeed try, try again. That seems like what Apple Inc.'s (AAPL) motto is, if a former executive is to be believed. 
  
  
  
 The former Apple executive, speaking with us on condition of anonymity, told us that that the company's biggest upcoming product launch will be one that hasn't been made official yet -- Apple has plans to enter the TV business. 
  
  
  
 According to source Apple plans to "blow Netflix and all those other guys away" by bundling Apple TV + iTunes inside physical television sets. According to the source Apple is teaming up with a major supplier (our guess would be Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (SEO:005930)), to provide the physical televisions, which will be rebranded as Apple television sets. 
  
  
  
 We expressed incredulity that an OEM would allow Apple to cut into their bottom line, but our source aptly pointed out the OEM would be winning even if Apple cuts into their branded sales. States the source, "If you have to be competing with somebody, you want to be competing with yourself." 
  
  
  
 According to the source, "You'll go into an Apple retail store and be able to walk out with a TV. It's perfect." 
  
  
  
 The idea of Apple entering the large television display business has been rumored on and off for a while now. After all, Apple has sold computer displays for some time now. But to our knowledge this is the first time such a project has been confirmed by a former or current executive. 
  
  
  
 Our source believed a fall launch was in order (potentially coinciding with the iPhone launch?), but the product could launch as late as next year, given Apple's "high standards". 
  
  
  
 The market prospects of such an Apple television lineup seems questionable, assuming our source's information is accurate. Apple TV has struggled with chief executive Steve Jobs billing it a "hobby" and some analysts less kindly deeming it "Apple's only major market failure." Apple does not release sales info for Apple TV, but it is believed that the recent refresh hardly sent sales soaring. 
  
  
  
 Likewise, the product is almost identical to Google Inc.'s (GOOG) "Internet TV" project with Sony Corp. (TYO:6758), which uses the company's "Google TV" version of its Android operating system. Sales of Google TV products in general have been quite poor. 
  
  
  
 That said, it does seem like at some point people will warm to the idea of internet TV, particularly if apps are included. It has already been confirmed that full access to third-party apps is coming to Google TV. The new iOS-driven televisions are expected to have third-party apps as well. 
  
  
  
 To that end the new television may be partly an advance move to counter Google's television efforts. Google just acquired Sage TV, a company well known for its media center and DVR software. But if Apple has its way, allegedly it will top Google in internet television sales. 
  
  
  
 Price and sales are clearly two of the biggest concerns for an Apple branded TV launch. However, Apple's brand is incredibly strong and its devoted fans have shown a tendency to pay whatever the company asks to get their hands on its slender devices. Perhaps next year we'll be talking about iTV in the same breath as iPad and iPhone. 
  
  
  
 Apple did not respond to requests for comment. ||||| The Apple rumour mill is churning once again. Mercifully, the latest loaf of speculation doesn't concern the iPhone 5, but instead suggests we may see an Apple television set by the end of this year. 
  
 An Apple television has been the subject of much discussion over the past few years, with fresh rumours of a launch cropping up every so often. This time, DailyTech's source -- a former Apple executive -- reckons Steve Jobs is planning an autumn launch. 
  
 The rumoured telly isn't to be confused with Apple TV, a set-top box for streaming video. But it's expected that the television will have Apple TV built in, allowing you to stream content from your iPhone, iPad, MacBook or over the Internet. 
  
 The TV is also rumoured to run on Apple's iOS mobile operating system, which should allow developers to create apps for the big screen. If that's true, then expect content-streaming apps such as BBC iPlayer to make an appearance. 
  
 The TV is apparently to be made by an OEM -- most probably Samsung. It's hard to believe that Apple would let one firm do all the work, though -- it's much more Apple's style to have the parts made by various companies and slap them together in its own workshops. 
  
 Similarly hard to believe is the late 2011 launch date. The rigorous development we'd expect from Apple in developing an entirely new product that 'just works' is likely to push any launch date into next year. 
  
 There are no solid facts surrounding an Apple television, so we can't recommend you save your money up quite yet. Poor sales of Apple TV (the set-top box -- try not to get confused here) could suggest that further ventures into the TV market by Apple are unlikely. 
  
 On the other hand, having a living room full of connected gadgets talking seamlessly with each other is a very 'Apple' concept, and recent Apple job listings have hinted that a standalone TV set may be in the works. We could find ourselves watching Neighbours on an Apple television in the near future after all. |||||