Country singer Randy Rogers’ newborn daughter tragically lost her battle with a rare health condition on Tuesday night. 
  
 “Rumer passed away last night,” the Randy Rogers Band frontman said in a statement to radio station 93Q Country on Wednesday. “She died after a week-long battle with a very rare condition. She died in our arms and in no pain. She was absolutely beautiful in every way. Her brain however was very sick.” 
  
 He continued, “I’m sure you all have many questions and we have all the answers the doctors gave us. We can share the story with you. It’s quite an extraordinary one. A memorial will be planned soon. We love you.” 
  
 The “Kiss Me In The Dark” singer’s wife, Chelsea, gave birth to Rumer Rain on June 3. She was just 6 days old when she died at Seton Memorial Hospital in Austin, Texas. 
  
 “During this time of grieving, the family asks that individuals wishing to offer condolences make a donation to the children’s charity of their choosing. The family thanks you for your love and support,” read a note on the band’s Facebook page. 
  
 Randy and Chelsea were married in March 2013. The couple’s daughter River Rose was born in 2013. ||||| The Randy Rogers Band is one of the most popular bands ever to hit the Texas Music Scene. No matter when you became a part of the Texas Music revolution you have heard one of his songs, attended at least one of his shows, or bought one of his albums. 
  
 The Randy Rogers Band doesn’t have any problems ringing out music to please Texas music lovers, which makes picking the top 5 songs a very hard task. But here we go……. 
  
 5. Better Off Wrong– From the “Just A Matter of Time” album this song takes the ever so cliche stand point of a break up and everyone’s opinion how you never did enough to make it work. But the twist comes when he tells the story lyrically on everything that was wrong and how it wasn’t going to work things were just “Better Off Wrong” 
  
 Subscribe to 103.1 KKCN on 
  
 4.Tonight’s Not The Night– A classic RRB song that puts all the lovers and prospectors of the evening looking to seal the deal on the dance floor. The lyrics depict that story we have all lived at one point where you were don’t want to leave her standing under the porch light and have to drive off with out making it the perfect night. A true story and a perfect song to fall in love to on the dance floor. It comes off of the” Rollercoaster” album from 2004. 
  
 Subscribe to 103.1 KKCN on 
  
 3. In My Arms Instead– From the self titled album this song is what goes through any guys mind when they fall in love and loose it all. No matter where you go you can’t get away from the memories or the mental triggers that you developed with that person. A true crowd favorite at any show will bring all the single people to the floor and put them to two stepping. 
  
 Subscribe to 103.1 KKCN on 
  
 2. Interstate– From the latest album “Burning The Day”. This is a fun song that if taken from the perspective of the artist puts a real feel to what life on the road is like and the balancing act that it requires between loving and working. The tune was a instant hit in the radio world when it was released as the RRB single. The music video also drew lots of attention because it was shot at the shows and caused fans to go wild and crazy. 
  
 Subscribe to 103.1 KKCN on 
  
 1. Kiss Me In The Dark– This is the staple song that everyone knows when the first chord rings out. It doesn’t matter if you are new to Texas music or a life long fan you know this song word for word. Every person in the venue will crowd the dance floor until its so packed you can’t move then sing every word of the song at the top of their lungs. This is the ultimate ladies song and one that the guys don’t mind dancing to with the hopes of stealing that kiss in the dark! 
  
 Subscribe to 103.1 KKCN on |||||