America 
  
 Staffers Walk Out Of Congress In Protest Over Brown And Garner Cases 
  
 i itoggle caption Alex Wong/Getty Images Alex Wong/Getty Images 
  
 Dozens of congressional staff members walked out of the Capitol at 3:30 p.m. ET Thursday, in a show of support for protesters angered by recent grand jury decisions not to indict police officers in the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner. 
  
 Wearing suits, ties and overcoats, the staffers stood several rows deep on the steps of Capitol Hill before making the hands-up gesture that has come to symbolize frustration with the deaths of the two unarmed black men at the hands of police. They stood silently with their arms raised for a moment before disbanding and walking down the steps. 
  
 While the event was spearheaded by the Congressional Black Associates, it also drew other staff members, including the Congressional Asian Pacific American Staff Association and the Congressional Hispanic Staff Association, according to CNN. 
  
 A few members of Congress came out to the steps, including Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Rep. Marc Veasey, D-Texas. The short event included a prayer from U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black. 
  
 The protest comes a week after Rep. Marcia L. Fudge, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, said she was "deeply disappointed" by a Staten Island grand jury's decision not to level charges in the Garner case. 
  
 Noting that the decision was similar to another jury's findings in Ferguson, Mo., Fudge wrote: 
  
 "In the span of two weeks, this nation seems to have heard one message loud and clear: there will be no accountability for taking Black lives. As an American, it is growing increasingly difficult to believe that there is justice for all." ||||| Story highlights Congressional staffers are planning to walk off their jobs Thursday at 3:30 p.m. 
  
 Staffers said they are showing solidarity to communities affected by a decisions not to indict officers in killing unarmed black men 
  
 Congressional staffers plan to walk off their jobs Thursday afternoon to show their support for the families of Michael Brown and Eric Garner in the wake of the decision by two grand juries not to indict the police officers responsible for their deaths, according to three staffers who plan to participate in the event. 
  
 The planned walkout comes after days of protests across the country, including in Washington, D.C., where demonstrators have marched through downtown, blocking roads and bridges on an almost nightly basis since last Wednesday's decision by a grand jury in Staten Island not to indict Officer Daniel Pantaleo in the chokehold death of Garner. 
  
 "We're proud to have this moment of solidarity with the families of Michael Brown and Eric Garner and the thousands of peaceful protesters around the country who are telling this country that black lives matter," said one staffer who was helping to plan the event. 
  
 The Congressional Asian Pacific American Staff Association and the Congressional Hispanic Staff Association joined black staffers and the Congressional Black Associates in planning the event, which is set to take place at 3:30 p.m., and is expected to draw at least 50 people. A staffer who planned to attend the protest said it was important to show support across racial lines. 
  
 "I believe it's important, because what affects one community really affects the entire country," the staffer told CNN. "It's not just one group of minorities that's affected. How one group is treated affects Asians, Hispanics, women. It's important that we show our solidarity and come together and really speak out about the injustices that are being done." 
  
 The group will gather in front of the Capitol and plan to take a photo at 345 p.m. U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black is expected to pray for the grieving families and to pray for peace. 
  
 The US Capitol dome is cocooned in scaffolding on October 28, 2014 in Washington, DC as it undergoes its first comprehensive repairs in more than half a century a century. The two-year, USD 60 million project is aimed at repairing nearly 1,300 cracks that have emerged in the nine-million-pound (4.1-million-kilogram) cast iron dome, according to the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) office. Construction on the dome began in 1855. Work symbolically continued through the US Civil War and the structure was eventually completed in 1866. AFP Photo/Paul J. Richards (Photo credit should read ) 
  
 "We're not trying to cause any type of controversy," one staffer told CNN. "We're just trying to highlight this issue, to show solidarity with people who have been affected." 
  
 Chaplain Black has drawn attention before for his topical prayers. Last year during the budget battle that shut down the government for 16 days, he opened each session with a prayer appealing the lawmakers to end the impasse. 
  
 "Obviously, there are probably some people who feel that my prayers should not have been as pointed as they were," Black told CNN's Anderson Cooper after the shutdown had ended. "My prayers simply reflect the reality of the environment that I am in." 
  
 Black could not be reached immediately reached for comment ahead of the event. ||||| Over a hundred black congressional staffers and several black lawmakers staged a walkout at the Capitol this afternoon, leading a silent protest on the steps of the Capitol over the recent police killing involving Ferguson and Eric Garner. 
  
 Reps. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Marc Veasey, D-Texas, were among the lawmakers participating in the walkout. Senate Chaplain Barry Black led the group in prayer, saying they were working as a “voice for the voiceless.” 
  
 “Today as people throughout the nation protest for justice in our lands, forgive us when we have failed to lift our voices for those who couldn't speak or breathe for themselves,” Black said. “May we not forget that in our national history injustice has often been maintained because good people failed to promptly act. Forgive oh God, our culpability in contributing to our national pathology as you keep us aware of our own capacity to be instruments of injustice.” 
  
 Alex Wong/Getty Images 
  
 After the prayer, the group stood on the steps of the Capitol, raising their hands in a gesture that has become symbolic of the Ferguson refrain –- hands up, don’t shoot. |||||