But he's not happy because of Saturday night's headlining act Kanye West.
Neil started a "cancel Kanye West's headline slot and get a rock band" petition on Change.org, which at the last count had more than 40,000 signatures.
He reckons that Glastonbury should be about "guitar music" and that the hip-hop star's name on the bill is "a waste of a headline slot".
"Basically when I saw that Kanye West was announced as the headliner for Glastonbury this year, I just felt that he didn't really represent what a festival of Glastonbury's magnitude should be.
"I feel that his music doesn't really go with a festival experience."
Neil has been to other major music events like V Festival and Latitude.
"I think a lot of people want to go to a festival, stand in a field, all come together, have a sing have a dance. And I think that Kanye and his music might not be that."
Neil says he's aware festivals are "changing" and he admits "a lot of people will enjoy having Kanye" headlining the Saturday night on 27 June.
But the 31-year-old would rather see AC/DC, Fleetwood Mac, The Rolling Stones or The Who.
"It would be great to see Prince do a set.
"Oasis, or Blur, David Bowie would be a dream. A good solid performance, maybe Green Day. I've seen those a few times and they really know how to put on a show."
And, unsurprisingly, he's happy Foo Fighters are headlining the Friday night, describing that booking as "brilliant".
Is Neil surprised by the popularity of the petition?
"Not really. I've got absolutely no thoughts in my mind that this will change anything. It would be great if it did but equally the Eavis family have done great things for Glastonbury and they rarely fail. So you've got to trust them a little bit."
Neil's petition has been accused of being racist, but Neil says that's not the intent at all.
"That's always going to happen, unfortunately."
"Obviously Kanye is a black artist, but it's nothing to do with race. It's to do with the music which he produces and the way that he presents himself. There's two distinct arguments there.
"I don't like his music generally, it doesn't speak to me in the same way that a guitar band would.
"And then as a separate case, the way that he presents himself to the media, I think is negative on quite a few different levels."
Neil added that Kanye's use of "racial terms" during his All Day performance at the Brits should not be "promoted" and "sometimes that's what he does".
"The petition was started off as almost like a joke reaction to his announcement.
"I stand by my feelings about it, I don't think he would be the ideal headliner. But I know that he's going to play there regardless and in a way I'd be disappointed if the Eavis family did change it."
And for those who have signed the petition and aren't even going to Glastonbury? Neil says their opinions still counts.
"It's going to be, I presume, broadcast on the BBC as it has done for the last several years. They're not paying £225 for the ticket, but they are paying TV licences and they should have a say in what they get to watch."
And by the way, Neil is adamant that he won't remotely tempted to go and watch Kanye's performance after all.
Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter, BBCNewsbeat on Instagram and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube