One man has died and 10 people have been injured after a van mounted a pavement near Finsbury Park Mosque.
Forensics officers are examining a white van which has Pontyclun Van Hire on it - a Rhondda Cynon Taff firm.
The van driver, a 48-year-old man, has been arrested and Home Secretary Amber Rudd said police were treating it "as a terrorist incident".
Just after 00:20 BST, the van hit people who were helping a man who had collapsed in the street. He later died, but his cause of death is unclear.
All the victims were Muslim and the 48-year-old, described by Prime Minister Theresa May as a white man, was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.
South Wales Police officers arrived at Pontyclun Van Hire just after 07:30 BST on Monday.
The company said: "We at Pontyclun Van Hire are shocked and saddened by the incident that took place at Finsbury Park last night.
"We are co-operating fully with the Metropolitan Police investigation and our thoughts are with those who have been injured in this cowardly attack.
"We will not be making any further statement because of the on going police investigation but will continue to assist the police in any way we can."
Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns said he had spoken with the chief constable of South Wales Police and was told "his team is fully engaged and working in partnership with the London Metropolitan Police as the investigation into the abhorrent attack at Finsbury Park gets under way".
Eyewitness to the attack, Abdul Rahman, said the driver said he wanted to "kill all Muslims".
Mr Rahman told the BBC he struck the man and helped subdue him until the police arrived.
Police said the arrested man had been taken to hospital as a precaution and would be taken into custody once discharged.
Ms Rudd said: "Londoners have been hit with a series of attacks and have actually been nothing short of heroic."
In a statement, Finsbury Park Mosque said it "condemns in the strongest terms a heinous terrorist attack".
It added: "This is a callous terrorist attack which coincides with the murdered MP, Jo Cox, anniversary."
Mosque chairman, Mohammed Kozbar, described it as "a cowardly attack which is no different than the attacks in Manchester and London".
The Muslim Council of Wales said it was "horrified", adding: "This weekend was declared by the Jo Cox Foundation as a moment to celebrate her legacy that 'we have more in common than divides us'.
"We urge all to remember her message today."
Some witnesses at the scene - near Finsbury Park Station and Arsenal's Emirates Stadium - said more than one attacker may have been involved.
But the Met said: "At this early stage of this investigation, no other suspects at the scene have been identified or reported to police, however the investigation continues."
Extra police are being deployed to reassure communities, especially those observing Ramadan, Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said.
Mrs May, who chaired a meeting of the government's Cobra committee, called the attack "sickening," saying it "targeted the ordinary and the innocent".
She said the early indications suggested the attacker acted alone, but extra officers had been deployed and the security needs of mosques would continue to be assessed.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said: "I'm totally shocked at the incident at Finsbury Park tonight. My thoughts are with those and the community affected by this awful event."