The leader of Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, the Sunni insurgent group rampaging across Iraq, called on Muslims on Tuesday to join his fight. “Rush O Muslims to your state. Yes, it is your state,” Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi said. He said that terrorism is a way for Muslims to live honorably and “insist upon your rights.” He also said the world is split between Islam and the forces of “disbelief and hypocrisy,” including the United States, Russia and Jews. 
  
 Sign up for breaking news alerts from NBC News 
  
 The statement, described as a Ramadan message, was released by a jihadist website and translated by a media arm of ISIS, which announced over the weekend that it would shorten its name. “The Muslims today have a loud, thundering statement, and possess heavy boots,” the statement said. “They have a statement that will cause the world to hear and understand the meaning of terrorism, and boots that will trample the idol of nationalism, destroy the idol of democracy and uncover its deviant nature.” 
  
 Play Facebook 
  
 Twitter 
  
 Embed 300 more US troops headed to Iraq 2:08 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
  
 IN-DEPTH 
  
 SOCIAL ||||| The leader of the so-called Islamic State has called on Muslims worldwide to take up arms and flock to the "caliphate" it had declared on captured Syrian and Iraqi soil. 
  
 Proclaiming a "new era" in which Muslims will ultimately triumph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi issued the call to jihad - holy war - in an audio message lasting nearly 20 minutes that was posted online on Tuesday. 
  
 Baghdadi, who has assumed the mediaeval title of caliph, used the message to seek to assert authority over Muslims everywhere. He called on them to rise up and avenge the alleged wrongs committed against their religion, from Central African Republic to Myanmar (Burma). 
  
 "By Allah, we will take revenge, by Allah we will take revenge, even if after a while," he said. 
  
 "They have a statement that will cause the world to hear and understand the meaning of terrorism, and boots that will trample the idol of nationalism, destroy the idol of democracy and uncover its deviant nature." 
  
 Wednesday's statement comes as Iraq's parliament adjourned for a week, an hour into its first session, after it failed to reach an agreement on senior appointments. 
  
 Colonial-era borders 
  
 The group, previously known as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), proclaimed the caliphate on Sunday and declared Baghdadi its leader, in a bid to sweep away state borders and redraw the map of the Middle East. 
  
 Translations in English, Russian, French, German, and Albanian were also posted online. 
  
 The declaration of the caliphate followed a three-week drive for territory by ISIL fighters and their allies among Iraqi's Sunni Muslim minority. 
  
 Dominating swathes of territory in an arc from Aleppo in Syria to near the western edge of Baghdad, the caliphate aims to erase colonial-era borders and defy the US- and Iranian-backed government of Iraq's Shia prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki. 
  
 While ISIL's power grab may appeal to many fighters, there have already been signs of dissent. 
  
 Some armed groups fighting in Syria have rejected the announcement of the caliphate, saying its terms had not "been realised at present", and urged Muslims to avoid siding with the Islamic State. 
  
 Iraq's Association of Muslim Scholars, which was formed to represent minority Sunnis, said in a statement: "Any group that announces a state or an Islamic emirate ... under these conditions is not in the interest of Iraq and its unity." |||||