Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mr Trump insisted leaving the TPP was good for American workers 
  
 Australia and New Zealand say they are hopeful of pressing ahead with the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, despite America's formal withdrawal. 
  
 The US-led 12-nation agreement was set to cover 40% of the world's economic output. 
  
 Pulling out of the TPP was one of Mr Trump's first executive orders and fulfils a long-held campaign promise. 
  
 Australia has already devised a name for a possible new agreement: TPP 12 Minus One. 
  
 The country's trade minister Steve Ciobo said Australia would not abandon the TPP just because it would require "a little bit of elbow grease" to keep it alive. 
  
 Meanwhile China, which was not part of the deal, hinted it may look to take advantage of TTP's collapse saying it was in favour of "open and transparent regional economic arrangements". 
  
 The trade agreement was negotiated by former US President Barack Obama and was aimed at deepening economic ties between its member countries, which were Japan, Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore, Brunei, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Mexico, Chile and Peru. 
  
 So what now for these countries - and indeed for China? 
  
 Australia: Holding out hope for a so-called 'TPP minus one' 
  
 Australia, among other nations, is looking for ways to salvage the TPP without the US. 
  
 Mr Ciobo was in Switzerland last week to discuss new deals at the World Economic Forum in Davos. 
  
 Image copyright Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website Image caption Australia's trade minister Steve Ciobo, right, with his Indonesian counterpart Enggartiasto Lukita last year. Mr Ciobo said Indonesia had shown interest in joining the TPP. 
  
 "I've had conversations with Canada, with Mexico, with Japan, with New Zealand, with Singapore, Malaysia," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) from New York on Monday. 
  
 "I know that there's been conversations that have been had with Chile and with Peru. So there's quite a number of countries that have an interest in looking to see if we can make a TPP 12 minus one work," he said. 
  
 Mr Ciobo also said the original architecture of the TPP was designed to enable other countries to join. 
  
 "Certainly I know that Indonesia has expressed a possible interest and there would be scope for China if we were able to reformulate it to be a TPP 12 minus one for countries like Indonesia or China or indeed other countries to consider joining and to join in order to get the benefits that flow as a consequence," he said. 
  
 New Zealand: Hopeful for TPP, but eyeing one-on-one deals 
  
 New Zealand Prime Minister Bill English has said he is hopeful of keeping a free trade deal alive with remaining members of the TPP agreement, while the country's trade minister Todd McClay told local media he expected TPP ministers would meet in the coming months to navigate a way forward. 
  
 Image copyright Hagen Hopkins Image caption New Zealand's trade minister Todd McClay confirms several other bilateral trade relations are still in good shape 
  
 Like his Australian counterpart, Mr McClay said he had met with a number of TPP member countries in Davos. 
  
 "New Zealand's economy depends upon fair access to overseas markets. We will continue to advocate for the benefits of trade liberalisation on the world stage," he said. 
  
 The country is also looking to hammer out bilateral deals with other countries and has recently been to the Middle East, promoting key New Zealand products including dairy. 
  
 Last week, Mr McClay confirmed New Zealand and Sri Lanka would move ahead with discussions on new trade and investment opportunities, including a free trade agreement between the two countries. 
  
 And the minister has said trade relations with the UK are in good shape, with an agreement in place to try and ensure there is no disruption to bilateral trade between New Zealand and Britain in the wake of Brexit. 
  
 Japan: Wanting to build trust with the US 
  
 Any hope of resurrecting the TPP will surely depend on Japan, the world's third largest economy. 
  
 Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has reinforced his trust in President Trump's leadership and said he hopes to continue talks with the US around free trade. 
  
 "I believe President Trump understands the importance of free and fair trade, so I'd like to pursue his understanding on the strategic and economic importance of the TPP trade pact," said Mr Abe during a parliament session on Monday. 
  
 Image copyright Kyodo News Image caption Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has repeatedly said he has trust in US President Donald Trump 
  
 Japan's finance minister Taro Aso reiterated this stance on Tuesday and told reporters that plans were being put in place for Mr Abe to visit the US and meet Mr Trump. 
  
 Trade Minister Hiroshige Seko said he would now be closely watching for any changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta) - which includes Canada, Mexico and the US - and how that might impact Japanese companies. 
  
 China: Left out in the cold, is Beijing now rejoicing? 
  
 China, which was left out of the TPP deal, has its eye on its own regional trade pacts. 
  
 It has suggested a Free Trade Area of the Asia Pacific and is supportive of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which could see a free trade deal between countries including Australia, China, India, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand. 
  
 Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chinese president Xi Jinping defended free trade at the World Economic Forum in Davos last week 
  
 In Davos, President Xi Jinping defended the notion of free trade and said protectionism was akin to "locking oneself in a dark room". 
  
 The Chinese leader's comments were widely viewed as a reference to Mr Trump's "America first" policies and a clear signal that Beijing saw the move as an opportunity to play an even larger role in world trade - filling the vacuum left by the US. 
  
 At a press conference on Tuesday, a Beijing spokesman avoided answering questions about whether China would look to join the TPP. 
  
 China had been advocating open transparent trade routes in the Pacific region "along with win win solutions," he said. 
  
 "We believe in regional economic integration. We are for open and transparent regional economic arrangements. The economies of the Asia Pacific region are diverse. It's important to behave in a open way. We're ready to work with all sides to provide impetus for the Asia Pacific and the global economy." ||||| Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump has begun carrying out his campaign pledges to undo America's trade ties -- starting Monday with executive action to pull the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. 
  
 "Great thing for the American worker, what we just did," Trump told reporters Monday in the Oval Office as he signed the order. 
  
 Here's what you need to know about Trump's move: 
  
 What did Trump do Monday? 
  
 Trump formally withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership -- a 12-nation deal that had been negotiated under former President Barack Obama. 
  
 Nothing changes because of Trump's move. Congress had not yet approved the TPP -- its fate was bleak on Capitol Hill no matter what the White House did -- and the deal had not yet taken effect. 
  
 However, by pulling the United States out of the deal, Trump fulfilled a campaign promise. 
  
 And in doing so, he ends all hopes for a deal Obama wanted as a major part of his legacy. 
  
 The TPP -- which has also included Canada, Mexico, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, Peru, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam and Brunei -- would have slashed tariffs for American imports and exports with those countries. In exchange, the United States had negotiated labor, environmental and intellectual property protections that major businesses sought. The deal's critics complained that it didn't directly address the issue of currency manipulation. 
  
 JUST WATCHED What is TPP? The massive trade deal, explained. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What is TPP? The massive trade deal, explained. 03:14 
  
 Now the pressure is on Trump 
  
 Trump on Sunday announced he'd start to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. On Monday, he pulled the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. 
  
 He has now taken firm control of the trade rules he long decried, and is in position to reverse decades of American presidents pushing for lower trade barriers and an interconnected global economy. 
  
 In other words: Now, the pressure is really on. 
  
 Trump's bet is that, through his negotiating prowess, force of will and willingness to walk away from the table, he can convince other countries to accept terms that previous presidents -- from George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton on NAFTA to Barack Obama on the TPP -- have not been able to achieve. 
  
 The task is difficult -- even though Trump's move to withdraw from the TPP is likely to be politically popular. Even Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders -- a leading Trump critic -- praised it, saying he is "glad the Trans-Pacific Partnership is dead and gone." 
  
 "Now is the time to develop a new trade policy that helps working families, not just multi-national corporations," Sanders said in a statement. "If President Trump is serious about a new policy to help American workers then I would be delighted to work with him." 
  
 What this means for globalization 
  
 Until Trump negotiates his own bargains, he's betting he can reverse the decades-long trend of globalization. 
  
 He faces a lot of skeptics. Big businesses are howling that Trump is undercutting their ability to sell to the vast majority of the world's consumers -- a particularly damaging move if manufacturing jobs that have already left the United States are gone for good. 
  
 Republicans have long supported free trade -- and now find themselves torn between a protectionist President and a business community that sees Trump's position as detached from the reality that new technology, rising wages and an increasingly interconnected world mean that many manufacturing and low-skill jobs won't return to the United States; that goods are sold cheaper in the United States because they are made overseas; and that American companies also benefit from trade deals, making trillions of dollars selling their own products oversees. 
  
 Those GOP principles were on display in the reaction to Trump's move. 
  
 "I don't see any benefit in trying to crawl back into our shell as a country," Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn, R-Texas, told CNN. 
  
 "It's clear that those of us who believe trade is good for American families have done a terrible job defending trade's historic successes and celebrating its future potential. We have to make the arguments and we have to start now," Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse said in a statement. 
  
 How will this affect Americans? 
  
 Because the TPP hadn't taken effect, there will be no immediate impact. 
  
 Quantifying what it means the United States is foregoing by turning down what would have been a deal including countries that make up 40% of the global economy -- both in terms of jobs retained and business lost -- is difficult, and numbers offered by both critics and advocates of the deal are disputed. 
  
 But labor groups -- some of which are scheduled to meet Trump Monday at the White House -- are sure to celebrate the move. They've long argued it would continue a trend of shifting American manufacturing jobs overseas to nations with lower wages and fewer labor protections. 
  
 Businesses will also lose access to potential new markets, though. US automakers hoped to see tariffs slashed in Asia. Farmers were set to see the removal of trade taxes that currently prevent them from selling products, particularly poultry, overseas. Pharmaceutical drug-makers had received years of patent protection that would have lessened the competition from generics in Asia. And tech companies, from Google to cell phone providers, sought to lessen regulations and gain entry into some of the countries involved in the deal. 
  
 "This decision will forfeit the opportunity to promote American exports, reduce trade barriers, open new markets, and protect American invention and innovation," Arizona Sen. John McCain said in a statement critical of Trump's executive action. 
  
 What does China have to do with it? 
  
 Best-case scenario for the United States: Nothing at all, since China wasn't involved in the TPP. 
  
 But already, Chinese leaders are angling to take the United States' place and expand the country's influence in the region. 
  
 "We must remain committed to promoting free trade and investment through opening up and say no to protectionism," Chinese President Xi Jinping said in a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos last week. 
  
 Obama had pitched the TPP as a way to counter China's growing influence by imposing US-backed labor, environmental and patent protections. China is unlikely to seek or support such protections in its own trade negotiations -- allowing those countries to produce cheaper goods, but with fewer worker protections. 
  
 The 11 remaining TPP nations are now set to regroup. Trade ministers from those nations say they intend to press forward with the deal -- but the United States' withdrawal could mean a major rewrite, or an opening for another global superpower to pursue an alternative agreement. ||||| Bernie Sanders Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
  
 President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Monday — effectively killing the landmark trade agreement — was met with praise and dismay that did not fit neatly along partisan lines. 
  
 Some progressive lawmakers touted Trump's decision to back out of the 12 nation deal, which needed congressional ratification before being implemented. 
  
 "I am glad the Trans-Pacific Partnership is dead and gone," Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont said in a statement moments after Trump made his executive order official. "For the last 30 years, we have had a series of trade deals - including the North American Free Trade Agreement, permanent normal trade relations with China and others - which have cost us millions of decent-paying jobs and caused a 'race to the bottom' which has lowered wages for American workers." 
  
 Sanders, who sought the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, said he would be "delighted" to work with Trump on new trade policy, so long as it helps "American workers." 
  
 Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a progressive Democrat, praised the move as well, calling it "the first necessary step in overhauling our trade policy." 
  
 "I stand ready to support Ohio workers by working with the Trump Administration to renegotiate NAFTA, put American workers ahead of corporate profits, and create jobs," he said in a statement. 
  
 Trump had also pledged to sign an executive order to renegotiate NAFTA Monday. On TPP, Trump had called it "a rape of our country" during the campaign, and he had promised to pull out of the deal for months. On Monday, he told the White House press pool the move is a "great thing for the American worker." 
  
 The agreement was the cornerstone of President Barack Obama's planned "pivot to Asia" in foreign policy. Dan DiMicco, who led Trump's trade transition team, said in a statement that the deal "should not be resurrected" now that the president pulled out. 
  
 But while progressive senators came out quickly in favor of the move, one of the strongest rebukes of the move came from Sen. John McCain of Arizona. 
  
 The Arizona Republican called the move "a serious mistake." 
  
 "President Trump's decision to formally withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership is a serious mistake that will have lasting consequences for America's economy and our strategic position in the Asia-Pacific region," he said. "This decision will forfeit the opportunity to promote American exports, reduce trade barriers, open new markets, and protect American invention and innovation. It will create an opening for China to rewrite the economic rules of the road at the expense of American workers. And it will send a troubling signal of American disengagement in the Asia-Pacific region at a time we can least afford it." 
  
 "Abandoning TPP is the wrong decision," he continued. "Moving forward, it is imperative that America advances a positive trade agenda in the Asia-Pacific that will keep American workers and companies competitive in one of the most economically vibrant and fastest-growing regions in the world." 
  
 Many mainstream Republicans and economists were in favor of the agreement. Prior to the election, Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who sought the Republican Party's presidential nomination in this cycle, was tapped by Obama to help promote the deal and get Congress to pass the agreement. 
  
 The National Taxpayers Union, a conservative taxpayers advocacy organization, also said Trump's move to withdraw from the agreement was not the best decision. 
  
 "President Trump should re-engage in TPP negotiations while pursuing these pro-growth goals and resist a move toward protectionism," NTU's Executive Vice President Brandon Arnold said in a statement. "Further, as the president reexamines NAFTA, he should strive to update and modernize the agreement in a manner that reduces the taxes and burdens that impede international commerce." 
  
 The decision was also met with skepticism from those in other countries involved in the multi-lateral deal. 
  
 Roland Paris, a former foreign policy adviser to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, went as far as saying the decision to dip out of TPP — considered by some to be a renegotiation of NAFTA as both Canada and Mexico were involved in the deal — was a huge win for China. 
  
 "Historians will look back at US cancellation of TPP as a major milestone in America's retreat from global leadership," he tweeted. "Big winner: China." ||||| BEIJING—China’s spotty record on open markets will test its efforts to seize the mantle of global economic leadership left by the U.S. withdrawal from an Asia-Pacific trade pact, though Beijing is now poised to expand its regional sway. 
  
 President Xi Jinping’s strong defense of economic integration last week in Davos, Switzerland, signaled China’s bid to step into Washington’s shoes as U.S. President Donald Trump hurriedly moves to overturn decades of global order. Mr. Trump’s Monday withdrawal from the 12-nation... ||||| U.S. President Donald Trump’s withdrawal from a long-planned Pacific trade pact creates a political and economic vacuum that China is eager to fill, potentially damaging American prestige in Asia. 
  
 With Trump making good on his campaign pledge to nix a deal that was the centerpiece of predecessor Barack Obama’s Asia policy, China’s leaders are already ramping up support for globalization and free trade. In a speech last week to the World Economic Forum at Davos, President Xi Jinping likened protectionism to "locking oneself in a dark room." 
  
 Trump opposed the pact because he said it could hurt American jobs. But the impact of his decision is likely to go beyond trade, giving more leeway to Xi to position China as an economic and military anchor in the western Pacific. Since coming to power, Xi has sought to expand China’s trade ties with its neighbors and begun an ambitious infrastructure project designed to reinvigorate ancient trading routes to the Middle East and Europe. 
  
 The failure of the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership -- which would have covered 12 nations and about 40 percent of global gross domestic product -- will see China step up its advocacy for an alternative pact first conceived by Southeast Asian countries. That deal doesn’t currently include the U.S. and contains fewer measures to tackle non-tariff barriers to trade. The TPP was contentious in part because it addressed issues like environmental and labor protections. 
  
 "The U.S. is now basically in a position where we had our horse, the Chinese had their horse -- but our horse has been put out to pasture and is no longer running in the race," said Eric Altbach, vice president at Albright Stonebridge Group in Washington and former deputy assistant U.S. Trade Representative for China affairs. "It’s a giant gift to the Chinese because they now can pitch themselves as the driver of trade liberalization." 
  
 Get the latest on global politics in your inbox, every day. Get our newsletter daily. 
  
 Under Obama, the U.S. used its Asia “pivot” to push back against China, which threatens over time to displace decades of U.S. dominance. While China has grown in clout it has also unnerved neighbors with its military expansion and its behavior over disputed areas of the East China Sea and South China Sea. The TPP was seen as a way to further bind countries, including smaller Southeast Asian nations, to the U.S. -- and act as a buffer. 
  
 Aircraft Carrier 
  
 China is concerned alongside other nations that Trump will pursue protectionist policies, Zhang Jun, an economic affairs official at the foreign ministry, said on Monday in a briefing before the TPP announcement. “If China has taken up a leadership role, it is because the front runners have stepped back, leaving that place to China,” Zhang said. 
  
 Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who chairs the Armed Services Committee, ripped Trump’s decision. Obama’s last defense secretary, Ash Carter, once said the TPP would be more strategically valuable than another aircraft carrier battle group in the Pacific. 
  
 The U.S. withdrawal "will create an opening for China to rewrite the economic rules of the road at the expense of American workers," McCain said. "And it will send a troubling signal of American disengagement in the Asia-Pacific region at a time we can least afford it." 
  
 “It’s arguable that the U.S. would have in fact benefited more from the TPP than Asia as average tariff levels are higher in Asia than the U.S.,” said Shane Oliver, the Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. 
  
 “Bilateral deals could ultimately have the same impact but will take a long time to reach,” he said. “I think the focus will now shift to regional deals involving China.” 
  
 The 16-nation Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership being championed by China takes in Southeast Asia countries, plus Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and India. Some leaders from TPP nations signaled after Trump’s election they’d shift their attention to the RCEP, with the next round of talks due to be held as soon as next month in Japan. 
  
 Read more: A QuickTake explainer on Trump’s trade policy 
  
 While some TPP leaders have indicated they might try and push on without the U.S., the pact looks to have run its course, said Victor Gao, director of the China National Association of International Studies who was a translator for late leader Deng Xiaoping. 
  
 "In China, we have an old saying: if a ship idles by the river bank by itself, other ships will keep sailing forward, and will leave the idled ship behind,” he said. 
  
 Obama regularly warned that failure to pass the TPP would let Beijing replace Washington in driving the rules of global trade. And his Council of Economic Advisers estimated the passage of RCEP would lead to the loss of market share among U.S. industries that now export more than $5 billion in goods to Japan. 
  
 Economic Impact 
  
 But the TPP never had overwhelming support in Congress, where many Democrats applauded Trump for withdrawing from it. 
  
 “I am glad the Trans-Pacific Partnership is dead and gone," Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who campaigned for president as a Democrat on a promise to scrap the deal, said in a statement. 
  
 Beyond trade, Asian leaders are stung after investing political capital in the deal. 
  
 Killing TPP "really undermines the United States" in the eyes of Asian allies, according to Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group. "They put a lot of effort into it, and now they feel like they can’t rely on the United States.” 
  
 Read more: QuickTake explainer on China’s free-trade strategy 
  
 Still, influence in Asia appears less important to the new president than his ability to deliver on a campaign promise and burnish his image as a champion of American workers. At his signing ceremony Monday in the Oval Office, Trump called the move a "great thing for the American worker, what we just did." 
  
 And it may not be smooth sailing for China even if the TPP is finished. 
  
 "China will try to fill the gap now, and yet China is a colossal net exporter, not importer," said Michael Every, head of financial markets research at Rabobank Group in Hong Kong. "Caveat Emptor for Asia if it rushes from TPP to RCEP.” 
  
 Beijing could find challenges rallying its neighbors, according to Barry Naughton, a professor of Chinese economy at the University of California in San Diego. “They are not in position to take their own interests and merge that with a set of global interests and make the kind of sacrifices necessary to bring allies closer to them,” he said on Bloomberg Television. 
  
 Vietnam called on Trump to take into account the strategic aspects of the TPP. 
  
 “We hope the U.S. will be quick to send a message of reassurance about their leadership or at least their engagement here to prevent other powers from filling the vacuum the U.S. leaves,” said Tran Viet Thai, deputy director general of the Diplomatic Academy of Vietnam in Hanoi, where the country’s diplomats are trained. “The ball is in the U.S.’s hands.” |||||