ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 41.67002 -83.53973 BLADE PHOTO ILLUSTRATION Bonds set at $500,000 each for Timothy and Esten Ciboro of North Toledo. 
  
 Police have arrested Timothy Ciboro, 53, and his son, Esten Ciboro, 27, on a charge of kidnapping a 13-year-old girl and shackling her to a support beam in the basement of this house at 825 Noble Street in Toledo. THE BLADE/JETTA FRASER 
  
 Enlarge | Buy This Image 
  
 A 13-year-old girl rescued late Wednesday from a North Toledo home where she said she was kept shackled in a basement for as long as a year is now in foster care, along with two other children taken from the house, authorities said this afternoon. 
  
 The girl was rescued when she managed to uncuff herself around 9 p.m. Wednesday with a spare key and run away after the suspects both went for a jog in a park, according to a Toledo police report. 
  
 The girl was discovered by a woman who called police when she saw the girl walking in the 700 block of Water Street about 9:15 p.m. Wednesday. The woman told police the girl was carrying several bags and looked like a runaway. The woman told police that she went outside and convinced the victim to come indoors with her. 
  
 AUDIO: Hear the 911 call made after the girl is discovered 
  
 Once inside, the girl told the woman that her mother had left her and her two siblings and went to Las Vegas. She then told the woman her dad had taken her in but she had run away "because she gets in trouble for wetting the bed," for which he "puts handcuffs on her ankles" and "makes her sleep in the basement." 
  
 A judge set bonds at $500,000 each for the pair who were arrested at their residence early today and accused of kidnapping the girl, who told authorities she is the stepsister of younger defendant. The older defendant is a former Toledo firefighter. 
  
 During her basement captivity, the girl said she was “fed spoiled and old scraps of food and forced to defecate and void in a bucket containing ammonia,” according to court documents. 
  
 During their arraignment in Toledo Municipal Court on charges of kidnapping and child endangerment, Timothy Ciboro, 53, and Esten Ciboro, 27, were ordered held at the Lucas County jail in lieu of the bond pending their preliminary hearing May 26. 
  
 Timothy Ciboro Enlarge 
  
 The victim told authorities she was “kept shackled by the ankle to a support beam in the basement of their [the suspects’] house for different periods of time, once lasting as long as a year,” [and] kept in the dark, according to a criminal complaint filed with the court. 
  
 The suspects were arrested about 1:40 a.m. at their house at 825 Noble St., where they live with the older suspect’s three underage children. The girl told police her mother had left them to go to Las Vegas. 
  
 The girl was afraid to talk to the woman who discovered her on the street, according to the police report, because her captors had told her if she talked to strangers she would “get into more trouble.” She told police she was put in the basement for wetting the bed. 
  
 The girl told authorities she escaped by using a key to unshackle herself when the two suspect left the house to go for a jog in a park. She also told authorities she had not been to school since the first grade. 
  
 Robin Reese, the executive director of the Lucas County Children Services said that the agency has been aware of the Ciboro family since at least 2014 when someone saw the girl pick up a discarded bag of french fries from a a garbage container in a park and then eat them. 
  
 Service employees then stopped by the house but saw no signs of child abuse and left the girl there, she said. 
  
 Esten Ciboro Enlarge 
  
 This time, children services removed all three children from the house and placed them in foster care, Ms. Reese said. All three are fine, she said, adding that the victim’s hygiene was poor but she did not appear malnourished. It appears that the girl was the only child targeted for abuse by the suspects, she said. 
  
 Ms. Reese said all three children were home-schooled, may be why the suspects escaped detection for a while, because “the education process is helpful to us to keep an eye on families.” 
  
 The spokesman refused to reveal the girl's name or the names and genders of her siblings. 
  
 Timothy Ciboro was previously a Toledo firefighter until 2004, according to city and court records. Fire Chief Luis Santiago confirmed Mr. Ciboro was a firefighter. 
  
 "I remember him and I remember him not being a very good employee," the chief said. 
  
 In 2007, Mr. Ciboro filed a lawsuit against the city fire department in federal court and several lawsuits in Lucas County Common Pleas Court against the city. 
  
 He filed a harassment and wrongful termination suit against the city that year. He also filed a lawsuit against his union, Toledo Firefighters Local 92 for failure to represent, and a misuse of authority lawsuit against the arbitrator who heard his case. He was fired after being accused of demanding a discount on ice cream for a friend at a South Toledo ice cream stand in the summer of 2004. 
  
 In U.S. District Court in Toledo, Mr. Ciboro filed a complaint on Feb. 21, 2007 over a separate incident at his fiancee's residence. In the lawsuit, Mr. Ciboro claimed he was assaulted by fire Lt. Rico Daugherty and Firefighter William Bruss in February, 2005, while they were treating a diabetic man, who became ill at the home of Mr. Ciboro's fiancee. 
  
 Mr. Ciboro claimed he was shoved into a doorway and struck on the head, neck, and back in an altercation with firefighters. At the time, Mr. Ciboro was charged with two counts of misdemeanor assault and misconduct at an emergency. One of the assault charges was dismissed; a jury in Toledo Municipal Court found him not guilty of the other count. A judge found him guilty of misconduct at an emergency, a minor misdemeanor. 
  
 Neighbor Maria Luna, 41, said the house was occupied by the father and three children, one of whom is believed to be the victim. They lived at the house for at least seven years. 
  
 Family members mainly kept to themselves and were always respectful. 
  
 "We've sat here watching everybody around us. We didn't notice anything. What did we miss?" she said. 
  
 Travis Bell, 23, said he was shocked by the news of his neighbor. He described Tim Ciboro as standoffish, and said he attempted once to speak with him. 
  
 "He just went into the house and closed the door," Mr. Bell said. 
  
 Mr. Bell said this incident reminded him of Ariel Castro in Cleveland. Castro hanged himself in prison in 2013 after being sentenced to more than 1,000 years when he pleaded guilty to 937 counts including kidnapping and rape involving three women he kept hostage in his home. 
  
 In 2013, three women who were held captive for more than a decade escaped when Castro left to get food from a nearby fast-food restaurant. 
  
 Amanda Berry, Michelle Knight, and Gina DeJesus had been kidnapped when lured them into his vehicle with the offer of a ride, and held in his Seymour Avenue home. They escaped May 6, 2013. Two of the survivors were acquainted with Castro. 
  
 Lucas County Children Services is still in the early stages of collecting information about the Ciboros, such as their previous employment history. 
  
 "From our information, that name has been tied to that residence for quite some time but we don't know how long yet," Julie Malkin, Lucas County Children Services spokesman, said. 
  
 "This one is an unusual situation and that's all I can say about it at this point," Ms. Malkin said. "We're still pulling information together." 
  
 Contributing to this report were reporters: Mike Sigov, Ryan Dunn, Tom Henry and Ignazio Messina. ||||| TOLEDO, Ohio (AP) — A teenager who said she was punished by being chained and forced to sleep in a darkened basement at different times over the past year used a spare key to escape Wednesday night, police said. 
  
 A father and his adult son were arrested early Thursday, not long after the 13-year-old girl was found outside a downtown office building more than a mile away. 
  
 Timothy Ciboro, 53, and Esten Ciboro, 27, were charged with kidnapping and child endangerment and were being held on bond. 
  
 Officers said it appeared the two men were trying to flee when they arrived at the house. Both were pulling away in a van with two younger children, a dog and cat, a map and a gun, according to a police report. 
  
 Both asked for a public defender during a brief hearing Thursday. A message was left with the public defender's office. 
  
 It's not clear how long the girl may have been in the basement. She told investigators she was shackled by the ankle to a support beam in the darkened room for different periods of time, and as long as a year, according to a court document. 
  
 The girl, who is related to the men, told officers she was shackled after wetting the bed. She said she hid a key in the basement that she used to escape when the men went jogging Wednesday night. 
  
 Officers found leg irons in the basement along with a bucket the girl said she used as a toilet, according to a police report. 
  
 The head of Lucas County Children Services said the girl was found with poor hygiene, but the two other children who also lived in the house appeared to be OK. 
  
 "They were not victims, to my knowledge," said Robin Reese, the agency's executive director. 
  
 The agency had contact with the girl in 2014, but she did not show signs of being malnourished or mistreated and was never removed from the home, she said. 
  
 The girl was home-schooled, Reese said. All three children were placed in foster care Thursday. 
  
 Information about the girl's mother wasn't immediately known. 
  
 ___ 
  
 This story has been corrected to show the girl was found a mile away, not at a nearby home. ||||| The 911 called that led to the arrest of a father and son accused of holding a 13-year-old girl captive for more than a year at their Toledo home has been released. 
  
 The 911 called that led to the arrest of a father and son accused of holding a 13-year-old girl captive for more than a year at their Toledo home has been released. 
  
 The City of Toledo’s top leaders are reacting after a north Toledo teen says she was held captive in a basement for more than a year. 
  
 The City of Toledo’s top leaders are reacting after a north Toledo teen says she was held captive in a basement for more than a year. 
  
 The father and son allegedly kept the girl shackled, by the ankle, to a support beam in the basement of this home for more than a year. (Source: WTOL) 
  
 A father and son were arrested after a 13-year-old girl claimed she was held captive in a Toledo home for more than a year. 
  
 Timothy Ciboro, 53, and Esten Ciboro, 27, were arrested early Thursday morning at a home on Noble Street in north Toledo. 
  
 Two cleaning ladies found the girl wandering outside the Port Authority building on Water Street around 9 p.m. Wednesday. 
  
 The girl said she had run away from home because her step-father chained her up in the basement. She managed to escape when the two men left the home to go on a run. 
  
 Lt. Joe Heffernan with the Toledo Police Department says the girl told police she was looking for a relative of her mother, Stafonda Hawkins, 39, when the two women found her. 
  
 "Fortunately, she ran into the right person, a good Samaritan, and she made all the right moves and called us," said Heffernan. 
  
 When asked by police where her mother was, the girl said she was in Las Vegas. 
  
 Listen: 911 call leads to arrest of father, son accused of holding 13-year-old girl captive 
  
 The girl told police that Esten is her step-brother and that she lives in the home with him and his father, along with her two siblings. 
  
 The father and son allegedly kept the girl shackled, by the ankle, to a support beam in the basement of the home for more than a year. She told police she was fed spoiled and old scraps of food and forced to go to the bathroom in a bucket. 
  
 Officials say the girl did not appear to be malnourished when she was found. 
  
 The girl also told police that she had not been to school since the first grade. 
  
 When crews arrived at the home, Timothy and Esten, along with two other children and two pets were leaving in a van. Police say it appears they were fleeing. 
  
 Inside the van, officers found a gun and a map to Oakwood, Ohio. Both adults were uncooperative and refused to let police in the home. 
  
 Once a search warrant was obtained, police found a large set of handcuffs chained to a support beam in the basement. 
  
 Officers also found the ammonia-filled bucket that the girl said she was forced to go to the bathroom in. 
  
 Both Timothy and Esten Ciboro were arrested that night. They were officially charged with kidnapping and endangering children in Toledo Municipal Court Thursday morning. Both are being held on $500,000 bonds. 
  
 WTOL 11 learned from police that Timothy is also a former Toledo firefighter. 
  
 Fire Chief Luis Santiago says Ciboro was sworn in in 1996, terminated in 2000, reinstated in 2001, and then fired again three years later in 2004. The Chief says Ciboro had a history of causing trouble in the department. A list of disciplinary problems include failing to obey orders, being late to work by two hours, and falsifying reports or statements. 
  
 "(Was he a good employee?) Obviously not," said Santiago. "We had our share of disciplinary challenges and issues with him throughout the years. He started on the job in, again, in '96, and we're looking at a termination in the year 2000, so he wasn't here that long. But again, he certainly had his share of disciplinary issues that not only the fire department, but the city had to deal with. " 
  
 Chief Santiago says he knew Ciboro on a professional, but not a personal level and declined to comment on Thursday's allegations, saying it's a very, very serious crime that has to go through due process. 
  
 Toledo Mayor responds to alleged abuse against 13-year-old girl 
  
 Neighbors in the area are shocked at the claims, and say they had no idea what was happening on their street. 
  
 One neighbor says everything appeared normal at the home. The Ciboro's had been her neighbors for about 15 years. 
  
 She says she never had any problems with them, so she was shocked when she learned what Timothy and Esten Ciboro were accused of. 
  
 She says she often saw all three children that lived at the home outside, but they were never alone. Timothy and Esten were always there. But then she says she stopped seeing the teenage girl. 
  
 "I did see the other two smaller kids and his other son coming and going all the time, but I never saw her anymore. It makes me feel sick, very sick about that, that you're right here in the neighborhood and have no idea that something like that is going on," the neighbor said."When we didn't see her anymore, we just figured she must've gone to her other parents or something. We just never expected that; I never expected anything like that. I have raised six children in this house and it's kind of scary, it's really scary." 
  
 Officials with Lucas County Children Services say the last contact the office had with the family was in 2014, when a neighbor reported seeing one of the children eating a french fry that had been thrown in the trash. The family apparently has a strict rule against fast food. 
  
 The children were found to not be malnourished, and the investigation ended before any of them were removed from the home. 
  
 "Children in abusive or neglectful situations, a lot of times they're traumatized, and it takes time for them to open up and be able to tell us what has happened," said Robin Reese, LCCS. 
  
 The child's mother, Stafonda Hawkins, is believed to have been gone before the 2014 incident. She has since been booked in the Lucas County Jail for a probation violation from 2009 after she left Ohio and reportedly began a life in Las Vegas. 
  
 Her family says they had no idea the girl was living under the condition described. 
  
 All three children who lived in the home are now in foster care, but due to safety and security reasons, it's unknown if they are with the same family or if they have been separated. 
  
 Both Timothy and Esten Ciboro remain behind bars at the Lucas County Jail. 
  
 Follow WTOL: 
  
  
  
 Download our app here. 
  
  
  
 Copyright 2016 WTOL. All rights reserved. |||||