Paddy Madden gave the Glovers an early lead when he fired past keeper Simon Moore from outside the box.
Dan Burn's header from Jamie McAllister's corner made it 2-0 before half-time but Harlee Dean nodded home to reduce the deficit after the break.
The Glovers withstood heavy pressure to seal promotion in their 10th year as a Football League club.
"It is incredible that a team of Yeovil's size can get to the Championship. They stood firm and it is a magnificent achievement."
In his second spell as manager, Gary Johnson has now won promotion with the Somerset side for the third time, having overseen their promotion to the Football League in 2003.
Even before their Wembley triumph, this season had already brought them their highest ever league position, as they finished the regular League One term one place below Brentford in fourth.
The Bees, who succumbed to an injury-time goal against Doncaster on the last day to miss out on automatic promotion, will again feel extremely unfortunate after wasting a number of chances to get back on level terms with the Glovers.
It is becoming a familiar feeling too - this was their seventh failure out of seven in the play-offs.
Yeovil's arrival in the Championship - via only their second play-off campaign - is the more remarkable for having been achieved on one of the division's lowest playing budgets and with an average attendance of 4,071 - more than 2,000 lower than their Wembley opponents' home gate.
The Glovers were well and noisily supported at Wembley, however, and their fans soon had something to celebrate as Sam Foley's shot from outside the area was blocked by Logan and the ball fell to top scorer and former Carlisle striker Madden, who lifted it over Moore for his 23rd Yeovil goal this season.
Yeovil boss Gary Johnson lost a Championship play-off final at Wembley while Bristol City boss in the 2007-08 season
Brentford then began to dominate possession but failed to create clear opportunities, although Harry Forrester should have done better after breaking into the area. As it was, his looping cross-shot was easily gathered by the Glovers keeper and man of the match Marek Stech.
And the Bees were soon made to pay for their lack of clear chances when the resulting corner saw Yeovil double their lead, Burn heading McAllister's deep corner towards goal and Hayter swiping at the ball without making contact to fool keeper Moore and his defender Craig.
Brentford came close to reducing the deficit deep into first-half injury time when Marcello Trotta's header was saved by Stech and, having switched formation from 4-3-3 to 4-4-2, the west Londoners soon went close again when Dean headed Forrester's corner wide.
But the Bees centre-back found the net soon after as he found himself unmarked in the box and headed in from Adam Forshaw's corner to make it 2-1.
With the tension mounting there was a moment of light relief as Bees boss Uwe Rosler was accidentally struck in the face with the ball by his own right-back Shaleum Logan.
Brentford will extend their 20-year absence from the second tier, having failed to return since a one-season stint in 1992-93
Brentford continued to dominate as Clayton Donaldson headed Forrester's cross towards goal and, when that effort was saved by Stech, substitute Bradley Wright-Phillips was unable turn in the rebound.
Fellow replacement Sam Saunders made an instant impact by setting up Forshaw, whose low shot was blocked by the legs of Stech.
Yeovil had what appeared to be a reasonable claim for a penalty turned down when Jake Bidwell caught Kevin Dawson in the box and the Glovers midfielder was subsequently booked for venting his frustration at the referee.
Soon after, Foley fired wide from long range before Wright-Phillips went close at the other end with a shot on the turn.
Logan then flashed a shot wide and Dean headed off target as Yeovil survived a Brentford onslaught to record the greatest success in their side's history.
Full Time   The final whistle goes and the game is over.
Booking      Gavin Williams goes into the book for time wasting.
The referee blows for offside against Clayton Donaldson.  Marek Stech takes the direct free kick.
Jake Bidwell crosses the ball, clearance made by Luke  Ayling. Shot by Sam Saunders from just outside the area goes over the net.
A cross is delivered by Clayton Donaldson, Marek Stech makes a save. Outswinging corner taken by Sam Saunders, Harlee Dean has a headed effort at goal from deep inside the area missing to the left of the target.
Shaleum Logan has shot on goal from just outside the penalty box which goes wide of the right-hand upright.
Direct free kick taken by Vitalijs Maksimenko.
Substitution      Matthew Dolan comes on in place of James Hayter.
Clayton Donaldson concedes a free kick for a foul on Sam Foley.
Paul Hayes sends in a cross, Edward Upson manages to make a clearance. The ball is sent over by Sam Saunders, Bradley Wright-Phillips produces a header from the edge of the box and misses to the right of the goal.
Tom Adeyemi concedes a free kick for a foul on Sam Foley. Direct free kick taken by Marek Stech.
Centre by Sam Saunders.
Sam Saunders crosses the ball, clearance by Byron Webster.
Bradley Wright-Phillips takes a shot. Save made by Marek Stech.
Substitution      Paul Hayes on for Toumani Diagouraga.
Sam Foley has an effort at goal from outside the box which goes wide left of the target.
Shaleum Logan gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on James Hayter. Marek Stech takes the free kick.
The ball is delivered by Sam Saunders, Dan Burn manages to make a clearance.
Substitution      James McAllister goes off and Vitalijs Maksimenko comes on.
Booking      Kevin Dawson goes into the referee's book for dissent.
Edward Upson fouled by Tom Adeyemi, the ref awards a free kick. James McAllister takes the direct free kick.
The ball is sent over by Toumani Diagouraga, save by Marek Stech.
The ball is sent over by Luke  Ayling, Shaleum Logan manages to make a clearance.
The ball is sent over by Shaleum Logan, Dan Burn makes a clearance.
Direct free kick taken by Sam Saunders.
Booking      Edward Upson receives a yellow card for unsporting behaviour.
Unfair challenge on Toumani Diagouraga by Edward Upson results in a free kick.
Adam Forshaw takes a shot. Save by Marek Stech.
Simon Moore takes the direct free kick.
Substitution      Sam Saunders on for Harry Forrester.
Inswinging corner taken left-footed by James McAllister from the right by-line, free kick awarded for an unfair challenge on Harry Forrester by Byron Webster.
The offside flag is raised against Bradley Wright-Phillips. Direct free kick taken by Marek Stech.
Adam Forshaw takes a short corner, Header by Clayton Donaldson from deep inside the penalty area misses to the left of the goal.
Kevin Dawson gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on Jake Bidwell. Simon Moore restarts play with the free kick.
Simon Moore restarts play with the free kick.
Substitution      Bradley Wright-Phillips comes on in place of Marcello Trotta.
Free kick awarded for a foul by Paddy Madden on Tony Craig.
Free kick awarded for an unfair challenge on Luke  Ayling by Harry Forrester. Marek Stech takes the direct free kick.
Foul by Edward Upson on Tom Adeyemi, free kick awarded. Tony Craig takes the direct free kick.
Marcello Trotta gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on Byron Webster. Marek Stech takes the direct free kick.
Clayton Donaldson delivers the ball.
The assist for the goal came from Adam Forshaw.
Goal!  - Harlee Dean -    Brentford 1 - 2 Yeovil        Harlee Dean grabs a headed goal from inside the penalty box. Brentford 1-2 Yeovil.
Outswinging corner taken left-footed by Adam Forshaw from the right by-line,
The ball is swung over by Luke  Ayling, clearance by Tony Craig.
Paddy Madden is ruled offside. Shaleum Logan takes the free kick.
Harry Forrester takes the inswinging corner, Headed effort from deep inside the penalty area by Harlee Dean misses to the right of the target.
Foul by Kevin Dawson on Harry Forrester, free kick awarded. Direct free kick taken by Jake Bidwell.
Toumani Diagouraga has an effort at goal from outside the box which goes wide right of the goal.
The referee gets the second half started.
Half Time    The referee calls an end to the first half.
Free kick awarded for a foul by Tony Craig on James Hayter. James McAllister produces a shot on goal direct from the free kick, Simon Moore makes a save.
Jake Bidwell crosses the ball, Marcello Trotta takes a shot. Marek Stech makes a comfortable save.
Joe Edwards sends in a cross.
The assist for the goal came from Edward Upson.
Goal!  - Dan Burn -    Brentford 0 - 2 Yeovil        Dan Burn finds the back of the net with a headed goal from inside the six-yard box. Brentford 0-2 Yeovil.
The ball is delivered by Sam Foley. Corner taken by Edward Upson,
Inswinging corner taken by James McAllister.
The ball is sent over by Jake Bidwell, Byron Webster manages to make a clearance.
Harry Forrester produces a cross, save by Marek Stech.
Luke  Ayling gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on Jake Bidwell. Free kick crossed by Adam Forshaw, Marek Stech makes a comfortable save.
Shaleum Logan sends in a cross. Adam Forshaw takes a shot. Marek Stech makes a comfortable save.
Free kick awarded for a foul by Marcello Trotta on Byron Webster. James McAllister restarts play with the free kick.
Luke  Ayling fouled by Harry Forrester, the ref awards a free kick. Marek Stech restarts play with the free kick.
Inswinging corner taken right-footed by Tony Craig from the left by-line, Joe Edwards makes a clearance.
Foul by Paddy Madden on Harlee Dean, free kick awarded. Adam Forshaw takes the free kick.
The ball is crossed by Shaleum Logan, clearance by Luke  Ayling.
Free kick awarded for a foul by Tom Adeyemi on Joe Edwards. Edward Upson takes the free kick.
Corner taken by Harry Forrester, clearance made by Sam Foley.
Unfair challenge on Clayton Donaldson by Sam Foley results in a free kick. Free kick taken by Harry Forrester.
Jake Bidwell sends in a cross, clearance by Byron Webster.
Marcello Trotta fouled by Byron Webster, the ref awards a free kick. Harry Forrester crosses the ball in from the free kick, save by Marek Stech.
Free kick awarded for an unfair challenge on Luke  Ayling by Harry Forrester. Marek Stech takes the direct free kick.
Kevin Dawson gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on Jake Bidwell. Simon Moore restarts play with the free kick.
The referee blows for offside. Free kick taken by Simon Moore.
Tom Adeyemi concedes a free kick for a foul on Joe Edwards. Free kick taken by Marek Stech.
The ball is sent over by Shaleum Logan.
Clayton Donaldson takes a shot. Save made by Marek Stech.
Shaleum Logan delivers the ball, Byron Webster manages to make a clearance.
Tom Adeyemi gives away a free kick for an unfair challenge on Edward Upson. Luke  Ayling takes the direct free kick.
Luke  Ayling crosses the ball, clearance by Harlee Dean.
Sam Foley provided the assist for the goal.
Goal!  - Paddy Madden -    Brentford 0 - 1 Yeovil        Paddy Madden fires in a goal from outside the penalty area to the top left corner of the goal. Brentford 0-1 Yeovil.
Edward Upson fouled by Tom Adeyemi, the ref awards a free kick. Marek Stech takes the free kick.
Luke  Ayling challenges Harry Forrester unfairly and gives away a free kick. Jake Bidwell takes the direct free kick.
The match has kicked off.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers