The only change after their 53-10 Premiership thrashing of Bath sees reserve scrum-half Ben Spencer take over from Henry Taylor on the bench.
The Warriors recall nine Scotland internationals including co-captains Henry Pyrgos and Jonny Gray.
Pyrgos starts ahead of in-form scrum-half Ali Price, who drops to the bench, for Glasgow's first ever quarter-final.
Wings Tommy Seymour and Lee Jones, and centre Alex Dunbar, also return to the backline.
The Scotland front row of Gordon Reid, Fraser Brown and Zander Fagerson, plus back-rower Ryan Wilson, also bolster the pack along with Gray, who has giant Kiwi Brian Alainu'uese alongside him in the second row with Tim Swinson banned.
Alainu'uese is the only non Scotland international in the Glasgow XV, while USA lock Greg Peterson returns for the first time since September on the bench after shoulder surgery.
The Warriors will confront an international team-mate in Saracens wing Sean Maitland, a former Glasgow player, with three other current or former Scotland operators - lock Jim Hamilton, plus replacements Kelly Brown and Duncan Taylor - also in the home ranks.
Springboks flanker Schalk Burger misses out with a calf injury for the defending champions, while England lock George Kruis remains unavailable with a knee injury.
Saracens director of rugby Mark McCall said: "The Warriors are a team we have a huge respect for. They have been building as a side and in this year's competition they have produced some fantastic performances against sides who have real European pedigree in Leicester Tigers and Racing 92.
"We are well aware of how much the occasion means to them as a club, but this is also a competition that is dear to our hearts, and one that I know the players love being a part of  - Sunday's quarter-final is a prime example of how special the Champions Cup can be."
Glasgow head coach Gregor Townsend added: "There has been a real buzz this week, the players are excited and focused on the task at hand.
"It's great to be able to bring back the guys who were not involved last week after the Six Nations; they will be fresh and ready for what promises to be a hugely physical fixture.
"Saracens have an incredible record in this competition and are extremely hard to beat at home, but we have trained well and in front of over 5,000 travelling Warriors fans, the players will give it everything."
Saracens: Alex Goode; Chris Ashton, Marcelo Bosch, Brad Barritt, Sean Maitland; Owen Farrell, Richard Wigglesworth; Mako Vunipola, Jamie George, Juan Figallo, Maro Itoje, Jim Hamilton, Michael Rhodes, Jackson Wray, Billy Vunipola.
Reps: Schalk Brits, Titi Lamositele, Vincent Koch, Kelly Brown, Joel Conlon, Ben Spencer, Alex Lozowski, Duncan Taylor.
Glasgow: Stuart Hogg; Tommy Seymour, Alex Dunbar, Peter Horne, Lee Jones; Finn Russell, Henry Pyrgos; Gordon Reid, Fraser Brown, Zander Fagerson, Brian Alainu'uese, Jonny Gray, Rob Harley, Ryan Wilson, Adam Ashe.
Reps: Corey Flynn, Alex Allan, Sila Puafisi, Greg Peterson, Chris Fusaro, Ali Price, Nick Grigg, Rory Hughes.
For the latest rugby union news follow @bbcrugbyunion on Twitter.