National Archives 
  
 The U.S. economy added just 88,000 jobs in March, far below economists’ expectations of up to 200,000. The numbers–which showed the weakest job creation since June 2012–added to signs of weaker growth heading into the spring. 
  
 U.S. stock futures extended their losses steeply after the data came out. The numbers dealt another blow to stocks, which had fallen this week on other economic data that came in below expectations. Gold futures shot higher after the report. 
  
 Here at MarketBeat HQ, we’ll be offering color commentary and tracking the markets. Feel free to weigh-in yourself, via the comments section. And while you’re here, why don’t you sign up to follow us on Twitter. 
  
 Enjoy the show. 
  
 For more MarketBeat and other streaming markets coverage from The Wall Street Journal, point your mobile browser to wsj.com/marketspulse. ||||| U.S. employers added just 88,000 jobs in March, the fewest in nine months and a sharp retreat after a period of strong hiring. The slowdown is a reminder that the job market's path back to full health will be uneven. 
  
 This Friday, March 29, 2013, photo, shows a help wanted sign in front of a restaurant in Richmond, Va. The U.S. economy has enjoyed a four-month stretch of robust job gains, and on Friday, April 5,... (Associated Press) 
  
 The Labor Department said Friday that the unemployment rate dipped to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent. While that is the lowest in four years, the rate fell only because more people stopped looking for work. The government counts people as unemployed only if they are actively looking for a job. 
  
 The weakness in March may signal that some companies were worried last month about steep government spending cuts that began on March 1. 
  
 March's job gains were half the pace of the previous six months, when the economy added an average of 196,000 jobs a month. The drop raises fears that the economy could slow after a showing signs of strengthening over the winter. |||||