Others say that it is not clear that pornography itself is the cause of effects seen in studies about the content's bad outcomes, and some see Utah's measures as a religious state putting a public health spin on a private issue. ||||| (CNN) A state with a national reputation for wholesomeness is taking aim at a medium with quite a different reputation: the pornography industry. 
  
 Utah Gov. Gary R. Herbert signed two pieces of legislation on Tuesday that aim to combat what's called "a sexually toxic environment" caused by porn. 
  
 "Pornography is a public health crisis. Today I signed two bills that will bring its dangers to light. S.C.R. 9 calls for additional research and education so that more individuals and families are aware of the harmful effects of pornography," said Herbert on the governor's Facebook page. 
  
 One is technically a resolution, and the other one is a bill: 
  
 -- S.C.R. 9 Concurrent Resolution on the Public Health Crisis. 
  
 This resolution declares that pornography is "a public health hazard leading to a broad spectrum of individual and public health impacts and societal harms." 
  
 The resolution claims Utah would be the first state in the nation to make such a declaration. 
  
 It cites what is says are numerous detrimental effects of porn, including the treatment of "women as objects and commodities for the viewer's use." 
  
 It also says pornography "equates violence toward women and children with sex and pain with pleasure, which increases the demand for sex trafficking, prostitution, child sexual abuse images, and child pornography." 
  
 The resolution has no punishing powers; it doesn't specifically ban pornography in the state. 
  
 Jon Cox, spokesman for the Republican governor, said Monday the point of the resolution is to raise awareness and education. "We want Utah youths to understand the addictive habits" of porn that are "harmful to our society." 
  
 -- H.B. 155 Reporting of Child Pornography. 
  
 This bill is more specific, and has enforcement muscle. 
  
 It requires that computer technicians who find child pornography during their work should report it to law enforcement officials. The bill further stipulates that "the willful failure to report the child pornography" would be a class B misdemeanor. 
  
 H.B. 155 also specifies that Internet service providers are not liable if the provider "reports child pornography in compliance with specified federal law." 
  
 Claims of addiction 
  
 The Utah Coalition Against Pornography hailed the move on its Facebook page Monday. It encourages people to head to the Capitol and "celebrate and recognize this historic moment!" 
  
 The bills have the support of people such as Dawn Hawkins, the executive director of National Center on Sexual Exploitation in Washington, who is scheduled to appear at the signing. 
  
 In an interview in 2015 , she said, "Pornography encourages viewers to view their sexual partners in a dehumanized way, and it increases the acceptance and enjoyment of sexual violence and harmful beliefs about women, sex and rape." 
  
 In a video interview on the Salt Lake Tribune website in February, State Sen. Todd Weiler, chief sponsor of both pieces of legislation, said, "Pornography today is like tobacco was 70 years ago," comparing the addictive effects. 
  
 An interesting backdrop to this legislation: In 2009, Harvard Business School study found that residents of Utah were the highest per capita purchasers of online adult entertainment in the United States. 
  
 Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter. 
  
 Not everyone agrees porn is necessarily and automatically a problem. 
  
 Dan Savage, author of a nationally syndicated sex advice column , said porn can be a tool when dealing with discrepant desires or libidos, such as in the case of new fathers, who can turn to porn for variety or stimulation. 
  
 "We have a hard-wired desire for variety. Porn allows you to scratch that itch without physically cheating on your partner," he told CNN in 2015. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. ||||| The question of how to raise kids in a world of ubiquitous pornography of the violent and misogynistic bent has long been on the radar of the American Academy of Pediatrics. It is of particular concern to pediatrician David Hill, who chairs the organization’s Council on Communications and Media. His group has been less than explicit about issuing guidelines on pornography versus non-pornography, seeing vital character-shaping cues from all types of media as germane to health. “We do recommend that parents keep screens out of kids bedrooms, to the extent they’re able to,” Hill told me. “We encourage parents to co-view TV and movies with kids, to give perspective. Movies and TV shows often do not show consequences for high-risk behaviors.” In many cases, high-risk behaviors of all sorts run together. 
  
 “That is not to suggest that you co-view pornography,” he said with a laugh. Obvious as that may seem, what we do know about the effects of viewing pornography on kids remains largely speculative. If access to pornography is categorically threatening to public health, he posits, why would it be that the U.S. is seeing historic lows in rates of teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted infectious diseases? Why, too, would rates of domestic violence and rape be continuing to fall? 
  
 “I think the conclusions we can draw from the science are very limited,” said Hill. Usually, public-health crises are based on outcomes rather than risk factors, however plausible. While Dines and others cite many correlations between pornography consumption and negative health outcomes, the causal relationship is rarely explicit. Making that leap is especially tenuous when studies rely on subjects recalling and reporting information about taboo behaviors and thoughts, a notoriously unreliable approach. Yet, Hill notes, no one is going to do a prospective trial where kids are given porn in a controlled environment to see how they are affected. 
  
 “Now, as a parent,” he pivoted, “I am concerned. My experience with parental controls has been disappointing at best.” 
  
 Weiler has the same sense. “A lot of people say this is a parental thing, but I've had mothers tell me that they block pornography in their homes, and their kids get tablets at school, take them to McDonald's and log onto Wi-Fi, and they're sitting in McDonald's watching porn.” 
  
 McDonald's is working to stem this issue of errant purveyance of porn to minors, Weiler said. “But the same is true with libraries. They put their hand over their heart and say it's a first amendment issue. And it is! But we would be appalled if libraries and McDonald’s were handing out cigarettes to children.” 
  
 Weiler prefers to intervene upstream of the First Amendment. In the U.K. in 2013, David Cameron asked Internet service providers to create an opt-in option for pornography. Hence Weiler’s interest in a national movement. “If we can get 15 states to take this stand,” he said, “I think we can start putting pressure on Congress to do what England has done.” ||||| Sen. Todd Weiler, R-Woods Cross, is sponsoring a resolution that would designate pornography addiction as a "public health hazard." The resolution is scheduled to be considered at the Capitol on Friday at 4 p.m. 
  
 Click the video above to watch Weiler compare porn addiction to tobacco addiction, and why he thinks porn is "dangerous." |||||