Helsinki lead Finland's Veikkausliga with one loss in 16 games and scored 18 goals in their last five wins.
But after Woolfe's cross-shot put Nomads ahead just before half-time, Helsinki could find no way through against a fine defensive effort.
The Welsh side take their slender lead into the return leg on Thursday 6 July.
The winners will face Moldovan side Dacia Chisinau or Shkëndija of Macedonia in the second qualifying round.
Connah's Quay Nomads manager Andy Morrison told BBC Wales Sport:
"It's a staggering performance and result, I am immensely proud of the lads.
"It's a fantastic night for Connah's Quay and Welsh football.
"I said before the game we had to respect this team. They have won six out of six and scored 20 goals and only conceded one goal, so they were flying in their league.
"A lot of their players were being watched by European clubs. That team have aspirations of getting to the Europa League [group stage].
"But we don't fear anyone and that's the identity of this club.
"When they walked off the pitch our lads had earned their respect... they were doing cartwheels in Uefa headquarters when they drew us, because we were probably the lowest ranked team in there."
"They have had a wake-up call and it's going to be a hell of a game at their place.
"It's going to be a massive ask but our lads have shown enough tonight and there is enough fight to go over there with no fear.
"It's half-time. The preparation will be better this week looking at the game but we have also lost the element of surprise with the opposition.
"It adds pressure on them though because they know if they lose that game it's an horrendous result for them with the history they have had in European football.
"They have dominated Finnish football for two or three decades and are in Champions League or Europa League every year, so they are under pressure.
"We will create problems and score a goal. We need to because you can't keep a team like that out for 180 minutes.
"We showed last year we can get a goal away from home because we are very good in the final third with our set plays."