Manolo Gabbiadini curled in his first goal of the season to put the home side ahead after Jose Callejon set him up.
Slovakia midfielder Hamsik made it 2-0 before half-time with a spectacular shot into the top corner after taking on Lorenzo Insigne's pass.
Gabbiadini was later just off target with a free-kick for Napoli, who sit a point behind Juventus.
Match ends, Napoli 2, Chievo 0.
Second Half ends, Napoli 2, Chievo 0.
Foul by Dries Mertens (Napoli).
Jonathan de Guzmán (Chievo) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Antonio Floro Flores (Chievo) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Lucas Castro.
Kalidou Koulibaly (Napoli) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Antonio Floro Flores (Chievo).
Foul by Dries Mertens (Napoli).
Jonathan de Guzmán (Chievo) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Piotr Zielinski (Napoli).
Dario Dainelli (Chievo) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Faouzi Ghoulam (Napoli).
Lucas Castro (Chievo) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Napoli. Dries Mertens replaces Lorenzo Insigne.
Faouzi Ghoulam (Napoli) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Roberto Inglese (Chievo).
Attempt saved. Arkadiusz Milik (Napoli) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Lorenzo Insigne.
Attempt saved. Roberto Inglese (Chievo) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Jonathan de Guzmán.
Offside, Chievo. Ivan Radovanovic tries a through ball, but Antonio Floro Flores is caught offside.
Lucas Castro (Chievo) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Piotr Zielinski (Napoli) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Lucas Castro (Chievo).
Corner,  Chievo. Conceded by Raúl Albiol.
Arkadiusz Milik (Napoli) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jonathan de Guzmán (Chievo).
Foul by Allan (Napoli).
Ivan Radovanovic (Chievo) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Allan (Napoli).
Perparim Hetemaj (Chievo) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Napoli. Allan replaces Jorginho.
Attempt missed. José Callejón (Napoli) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. Assisted by Piotr Zielinski.
Attempt blocked. Roberto Inglese (Chievo) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Jonathan de Guzmán.
Substitution, Napoli. Arkadiusz Milik replaces Manolo Gabbiadini.
Substitution, Chievo. Mariano Izco replaces Fabrizio Cacciatore because of an injury.
Substitution, Chievo. Jonathan de Guzmán replaces Valter Birsa.
Attempt saved. Valter Birsa (Chievo) left footed shot from more than 35 yards is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Fabrizio Cacciatore.
Substitution, Chievo. Antonio Floro Flores replaces Riccardo Meggiorini.
Attempt missed. Piotr Zielinski (Napoli) left footed shot from the right side of the box is too high.
Corner,  Napoli. Conceded by Dario Dainelli.
Dario Dainelli (Chievo) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.