The Fijian wing was shown a yellow after stamping on Keelan Giles.
Raisuqe was eventually sent-off by referee Matthew Carley after 52 minutes for second yellow card.
"I don't think I'm being controversial. If someone stamps on someone then surely that's a red card," said Tandy.
"Everyone can see that he's stamped on Keelan. I don't know if stamping is a yellow card in any format so I don't quite get it, but that's the decision.
"I don't want to be sitting here bleating around referee calls even though there were some poor ones, but ultimately that didn't really cost us the game.
"I still think we should have dealt with that and there were enough opportunities for us to win that game irrelevant of some questionable decisions."
Between Raisuge's 10 minutes in the sin-bin and the red card, Stade spent 38 minutes reduced to 14 men and scored all of their three tries while a man down.
Fly-half Dan Biggar kicked a penalty to put Ospreys 14-11 ahead after Raisuge was dismissed, but they conceded two converted tries after that as they crashed out of the tournament.
Tandy was also unhappy with a decision to disallow a Dan Biggar try early in the game for a forward pass when the ball appeared to be deflected by a Stade defender.
However, he said he did not blame refereeing decisions for the defeat, instead saying his own team's failure to take their chances cost them a home semi-final against Bath.
"We conceded cheap tries and if you look at the back end of the game we had our chances, we pulled Stade around, but ultimately we didn't finish it off," he said.
"There's no hiding place. It's pretty raw but it's knockout rugby.
"One team hasn't done a lot to win the game, they've done everything in their power to probably slow the game down and win in different ways and we've got to handle that better.
"If we'd handle our ball better and taken out chances that would not have had a bearing on the game."
The loss followed a shock 13-5 Pro12 defeat by Treviso, and third-placed Ospreys they face leaders Leinster at home on Saturday, 8 April.
"There's no hiding place, we've got Leinster coming to us," added Tandy.
"There's no bigger or better game for us to be fired up on and make sure we go and get a performance and ultimately a result."