Aaron Sorkin's last two films have been adaptations of books about a game changing tech mogul and a dynamic personality who wasn't afraid to think differently to achieve success. Which makes him a very logical choice to take on the upcoming Steve Jobs biopic. 
  
 According to the LA Times, the TV and film vet is amongst Sony's top choices to adapt Walter Isaacson's new biography of the late Apple co-founder, who died earlier this month. The studio purchased the film rights to the book shortly thereafter and have made the project a high priority. 
  
 An Oscar winner for his spitfire take on Mark Zuckerberg and the creation of Facebook in "The Social Network" and one of the pens behind this fall's "Moneyball," the story of Oakland A's general manager Bill Beane's newage, statistical approach to the game of baseball, Sorkin does big personalities well. He created and wrote many of the best episodes of the White House drama, "The West Wing," while also writing the political comedy "Charlie Wilson's War," and the dramas "The American President" and "A Few Good Men." 
  
 For more, click over to the LA Times . For details from the Isaacson book, click here ||||| If you're going to turn a non-idiotic book into a non-idiotic movie, and the central character is some kind of against-the-grain man, then you can only turn to one person for help with this script: Aaron Sorkin. It worked great for Social Network, it worked okay enough for Moneyball, and now Sony's approaching Sorkin to adapt Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs, according to the L.A. Times. Sorkin's a longtime Apple loyalist (even though he hates the Internet with a mighty passion), and he and Jobs knew each other, which could nudge the script into hagiography territory, especially this close to Jobs's death. Too bad Aaron Sorkin is the only writer in Hollywood. [24 Frames/LAT] ||||| “Why don’t you come on up here and let me give you a tour of the place.” 
  
 I’d never met Steve Jobs but we’d begun a phone friendship. It began when I was quoted somewhere answering the question “Mac or PC?” and I said, “Everything I’ve ever written, I’ve written on a Mac.” He called me to say he appreciated the quote and said if there was ever anything he could do for me I should give him a ring. Then he would call me from time to time to compliment me on an episode of television or a movie I’d written that he’d particularly liked. 
  
 When someone’s making a courtesy call I like not to make them stay on the phone very long. So I never got a chance to tell Steve that he was making truly great American products that people wanted to buy. I never got to tell him about the experience of “opening the box” that so many of us are talking about this week. Or about how my young daughter can’t walk past an Apple store without going in. I never told him how I loved his sense of showmanship. 
  
 There’s a huge difference between a showman and huckster. A showman’s got the goods. 
  
 The second-to-last call I got from Steve came the day a television series of mine was canceled. “I just want to make sure you’re not discouraged,” he said. Why would an almost stranger take even 60 seconds out of his day to make that call? It had to have been because he was an awfully nice man. And that he knew what it felt like to blow it on a big stage. 
  
 But it’s his last call I’ll always remember. He wanted me to write a Pixar movie. I told him I loved Pixar movies, I’d seen all of them at least twice and felt they were small miracles, but that I didn’t think I’d be good at it. 
  
 STEVE: Why not? 
  
 ME: I just—I don’t think I can make inanimate objects talk. 
  
 STEVE: Once you make them talk they won’t be inanimate. 
  
 ME: The truth is I don’t know how to tell those stories. I have a young kid who loves Pixar movies and she’ll turn cartwheels if I tell her I’m writing one and I don’t want to disappoint her by writing the only bad movie in the history of Pixar. 
  
 (long silence) 
  
 Clockwise from top left: Louie Psihoyos / Corbis; Getty Images (5); Newsweek Archives 
  
 STEVE: Jeez ... write about THAT. 
  
 ME: Steve— 
  
 STEVE: Why don’t you come up here and let me give you a tour of the place. |||||