I am all for a world of brand mashups. Taco Bell's Doritos Loco Tacos had me racing to the drive-thru opening week, and the Sour Patch Kids-flavored Slurpee at 7-11 is...not my favorite, but I just like knowing that it exists. 
  
 For the latest edible remix, Burger King has tunneled deep into the American psyche and excavated something the people didn't even know they wanted: Cheetos powder-dusted mozzarella sticks filled with deep-fried macaroni and cheese. 
  
 Just $2.49 will get you a 5-piece order of these coagulated orange clumps of processed cheese, and they come with ranch dressing dipping sauce because The Burger King knows taste. It's only available in select Burger Kings in Southern California for now, but if we all work together, we can make this a permanent thing. We can do this, you guys! 
  
 This YouTube fast food reviewer was lucky enough to try out the Mac n' Cheetos, eating it inside his car fresh from the drive-thru: the way all fast food is meant to be eaten. 
  
 Listening to him chomp away on crunchy mozzarella sticks is like ASMR-powered teleportation. I am there. I am eating the fried cheese dust. His review: "Dangerous for you Cheetos fans, dangerous for you mac and cheese lovers, definitely bomb sexy for your face, this is pretty awesome." 
  
 I understand that not everyone shares in my joy of raccoon-trash food combinations. The Verge staff was in emotional shambles as news broke of the unholy hybrid: 
  
 Where do you stand on Burger King's new experiment? Sound off in the poll below, and if you live in Southern California, please mail these to me. I'm sure they'll still be perfectly intact by the time they get to New York. ||||| Thanks to Burger King , we now have something called Mac n' Cheetos in our world. It's exactly what you think: basically a giant, crunchy Cheeto stuffed with oozy macaroni and cheese. 
  
 Also thanks to Burger King, we can say goodbye to our waistlines, because these look to be both ridiculously addictive-tasting and also crazily artery-clogging. Take your pick: satisfied taste buds, or health? Burger King may say we can have it our way, but these odds are stacked against us. 
  
 Early reviews suggest they taste a bit like the fried mac-and-cheese balls you can pick up at places like Trader Joe's or Cheesecake Factory. But of course, these are Cheetos instead of just regular cheese and breadcrumbs. 
  
 It's a limited-time product that's currently only available at select locations, which is probably a good thing for our collective cholesterol. Given the early feedback, though, Burger King might have no choice but to plan a bigger national roll-out, as it looks like they've hit on a winner: ||||| SHARE THIS ARTICLE Share Tweet Post Email 
  
 Source: Burger King Source: Burger King 
  
 Burger King, the restaurant chain backed by 3G Capital and Warren Buffett, will begin selling deep-fried sticks of macaroni and cheese encrusted in Cheetos-flavored breading, part of a trend toward blending fast food with well-known snack brands. 
  
 The new product, called Mac ’n Cheetos, emerged from a partnership with PepsiCo Inc.’s Frito-Lay, the snack empire that owns Cheetos, Doritos, Ruffles and other chips. The move mimics the strategy of Yum! Brands Inc.’s Taco Bell, which introduced a taco with a Doritos shell in 2012. That item, called Doritos Locos Tacos, helped turn around sales at the then-struggling chain and offshoots followed: Cool Ranch, Nacho Cheese and Fiery Doritos. 
  
 Mac ’n Cheetos will be sold for about eight weeks or until supplies run out, said Burger King, which is part of Restaurant Brands International Inc. The $2.49 five-pack of portable macaroni-and-cheese bites are similar to mozzarella sticks. The item, which has 310 calories, has already appeared at some Burger King restaurants in a trial phase. 
  
 “We’re partnering up with one of Americans’ favorite brands,” Alex Macedo, president of North America at Burger King, said in an interview. “It’s quite unique.” 
  
 Hot Dogs 
  
 Facing a fiercely competitive fast-food market, restaurant chains are under pressure to get more creative with their menus. Burger King previously started selling grilled Oscar Mayer hot dogs earlier this year, along with an Egg-normous burrito and Chicken Fries Rings. Other chains, including McDonald’s Corp., are relying more heavily on discounts, such as a two-for-$5 deal. 
  
 The Mac ’n Cheetos debut also reflects the increasingly tangled web of fast-food alliances. Though PepsiCo owns Cheetos, Burger King’s U.S. restaurants sell beverages from Coca-Cola Co., another company backed by Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
  
 However, some of Burger King’s international locations sell Pepsi drinks, and domestic ones offer PepsiCo’s Quaker oatmeal. Yum and PepsiCo, meanwhile, used to be part of the same company, and partnerships between the two are more common. 
  
 No Switch 
  
 The new item shouldn’t be seen as a sign that Burger King is switching to Pepsi in the U.S., Macedo said. 
  
 “It’s not a plan for us to migrate to Pepsi,” he said. “Our relationship with Coke is as good as it is with PepsiCo.” 
  
 The two companies started working together about a year ago to create the mac-and-cheese item. It’s the first time the Cheetos brand has been extended beyond chips into other food, and there may be more hybrids coming. 
  
 “We’re working on a few other menu items,” Macedo said. “There’s room for us to do more together in the future.” 
  
 Watch Next: This Veggie Burger Is So Close to Meat It Bleeds |||||