By . Matt Lawless . Follow @@mattylawless . It's not just on the field where the action promises to be competitive this season. The battle of the broadcasting giants is as fierce as ever. The BBC's flagship football programme Match of the Day celebrates its 50 season. Gary Lineker leads the way and will be joined by fresh faces on the sofa in Ruud Gullit, Phil Neville and Rio Ferdinand throughout the year. And the FA Cup is back on the Beeb after a seven-year absence. Terrestrial rival ITV have the glamour of the Champions League, plus all of England's internationals with Paul Scholes joining their stable. CLICK HERE to start picking your Fantasy Football team NOW! There’s £60,000 in prizes including £1,000 up for grabs EVERY WEEK. Top team: Sportsmail's Jamie Redknapp and Jamie Carragher lead Sky Sports' coverage along with Gary Neville and Graeme Souness . The former Manchester United midfielder will also be part of BT Sport's ever-expanding coverage with 18 of the top pick of Premier League games. They will share the FA Cup with the BBC too. Sky Sports will screen 'more of the games that matter' with 116 Premier League fixtures on offer throughout the season and 55 Championship games. Here's what you need to know about the top-four TV stations as we enter the new season... Many happy returns: Match of the Day, hosted by Gary Lineker (R) with pundits Alan Shearer and Rio Ferdinand, celebrates its 50th season on air . New signing: QPR defender Rio Ferdinand will join the MOTD panel at times throughout the season . ITV . Look out: Paul Scholes, who will be on BT Sport too, joins Adrian Chiles on ITV this season . Sky Sports . Big talking points: Ed Chamberlain will lead the coverage for Monday Night Football with Carragher and Neville . BT Sport . Talking a good game: BT Sport, lead by Jake Humphrey, are back with more action after a fine first season . PS: Here's what American fans can look forward to next season... US broadcasting giants NBC have exclusive coverage of the Premier League in the States next season and have released a funny trailer to promote it. Hollywood actor Jason Sudekis reprises the role of hapless, wannabe 'soccer' coach Ted Lasso with Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard making a hilarious cameo. CLICK HERE to start picking your Fantasy Football team NOW! There’s £60,000 in prizes including £1,000 up for grabs EVERY WEEK.