Assignment outlining guidelines for ‘$5 Date’ providing separate instructions for boys and girls is example of misogynistic lessons common in the state, critics say 
  
 A Utah high school homework assignment directing students to “go on a date” and telling girls to be “feminine and lady-like” and not to “waste” a boy’s money has caused an uproar over what some said was an example of misogynistic lessons common in the state. 
  
 The handouts from Highland high school in Salt Lake City, copies of which spread on Facebook this week, outlined guidelines for a “$5 Date” and provided separate instructions for boys and girls. 
  
 The lesson, which came from a Utah teachers’ database of assignments and has since been removed, told girls, “Don’t keep checking in the mirror combing hair,” “Don’t fish for compliments,” “Don’t criticize his driving” and “If you think you’re too fat etc, keep it to yourself.” 
  
 Jenn Oxborrow, the mother who posted the handout on Facebook, said in an interview that her 16-year-old daughter’s “financial literacy and adult roles” course has repeatedly promoted gender stereotypes and sexist material. 
  
 ‘The girls’ assignment was essentially based around how to please boys.’ Photograph: courtesy of Jenn Oxborrow 
  
 “I was horrified. It wasn’t the first time that we had seen content that was gender biased in this class. But this was over the top,” she said. “As a teacher, you have a responsibility to be inclusive and to think very carefully about the message you’re sharing.” 
  
 Her daughter, Lucy Mulligan, a junior and honors student, said she was immediately surprised by the language of the assignment and the fact that it offered different directions for girls and boys. 
  
 “I just thought it was so bizarre,” she said. “The girls’ assignment was essentially based around how to please boys.” 
  
 It wasn’t the first time that we had seen content that was gender biased in this class. But this was over the top Jenn Oxborrow 
  
 The handouts said they were offering girls suggestions “from the guys” and vice versa and told boys to “make plans for the date”, pick up the girl and pay for the meal. 
  
 The boys’ worksheet further said, “At a restaurant, say what you’re going to order so she will have a guide in ordering”, “Girls like flowers and little gifts”, “chew with your mouth closed”, “no gross noises” and “Don’t comment or be concerned with how much she is or isn’t eating”. 
  
 Highland’s principal Chris Jenson did not respond to a request for comment but told the Salt Lake Tribune that the teacher did not write the lesson and that students could spend time with a friend to complete the assignment. 
  
 Jenson declined to identify the teacher but said, “She wanted it to be a light-hearted lesson in social norms.” 
  
 Mulligan said it seemed the students had no choice but to go on a date, noting that the worksheet requires a “date’s signature”. 
  
 She said she was particularly concerned that LGBT students would feel excluded or hurt by the message of the worksheets, which assume that girls only date boys. 
  
 The assignment told boys to ‘make plans for the date’, pick up the girl and pay for the meal. Photograph: courtesy of Jenn Oxborrow 
  
 “I was thinking of kids in my class who might not identify as being straight or might not identify as any particular gender,” she said. “If you’re struggling to come out or feel comfortable in your environment and then you’re given this assignment that makes it seem like it might be unacceptable, I just think it’s encouraging pretty unfair standards.” 
  
 Oxborrow, who is the executive director of the Utah Domestic Violence Coalition, said lessons that reinforce male entitlement and gender norms can have serious consequences. She noted that the highly conservative state has high rates of domestic violence and teenage suicide. 
  
 “This can contribute to really dangerous and unhealthy relationships,” she said, adding, “It’s completely non-inclusive and completely insensitive.” 
  
 Mark Peterson, spokesman for the Utah board of education, said the assignment came from an “open source” network where teachers can upload and share lessons and that the state did not vet the material. But officials have since removed the worksheets, which were reportedly part of a “Purposes of Dating” section. 
  
 “It is inappropriate and unacceptable. It is very much is reminiscent of a textbook on dating from the 1950s or earlier,” Peterson said. 
  
 It’s unclear how widely teachers have used the assignment, but Oxborrow said it appeared the lesson has circulated since 2011. She also noted that communities outside of her district have since told her that teachers assigned the same homework for the class, which is a state-mandated course. 
  
 “They are acting like this is all taken care of because one worksheet has been modified or taken down,” she said, adding, “I’m really concerned that the content and messaging is evidence-based.” 
  
 Mulligan said she felt her frustrations with her coursework made her a minority in the class, but hoped the attention would encourage school officials to more broadly reform curricula. 
  
 “I hope it just becomes more overall inclusive for people who don’t identify as being male or female or straight,” she said. “I hope people are able to feel more comfortable in the classroom.” ||||| 1 of 8 View Caption 
  
 | Courtesy Utah Education Network A dating assignment. | Courtesy Utah Education Network A dating assignment. This is from a list of dating suggestions for boys written by female classmates at Highland High School. This is from a list of dating suggestions for girls written by male classmates at Highland High School. This is from a list of dating suggestions for boys written by female classmates at Highland High School. This is from a list of dating suggestions for girls written by male classmates at Highland High School. | Courtesy Utah Education Network A dating assignment. | Courtesy Utah Education Network A dating assignment. ||||| Notice 
  
 You must log in to continue. ||||| Family: ‘$5 Date’ Utah classroom assignment exhibits gender bias 
  
 2 
  
 Updated at 4:48 pm, January 11th, 2017 By: Andrew Adams, CNN 
  
 Share This Story 
  
 We Matched 
  
 Salt Lake City, UT (KSL) — A Utah family raised concerns this week over a “$5.00 Date” assignment from a class at Highland High School, prompting school district and state administrators to take action. 
  
 Jenn Oxborrow and her daughter, Lucy Mulligan, said Tuesday the assignment, issued in an adult roles and financial literacy class, exhibited gender bias. 
  
 “It’s just completely unfair, I think,” said Mulligan, junior at Highland. 
  
 The assignment to “go on a date” came with two handouts that included several “suggestions” for girls from boys and for boys from girls. 
  
 Among the listed suggestions for girls from boys are “don’t waste his money”, “be feminine and ladylike”, “don’t worry about your appearance the whole date”, and “if you think you’re too fat, etc., keep it to yourself.” 
  
 “That does give girls, I think, a really negative message about how they should feel about their bodies and themselves,” Mulligan said. 
  
 The listed suggestions for boys from girls include “don’t feel entitled to a kiss (or more)”, “dress for the occasion, like you care about her”, “don’t drive recklessly” and “don’t exaggerate to your friends about what happened on the date.” 
  
 “There’s so many power and control issues within this, it’s really dangerous,” said Oxborrow, who works as a therapist. 
  
 Salt Lake City School District spokesman Jason Olsen said Tuesday afternoon that the handouts had “definite gender bias,” but that the teacher was “mortified” and did not want to “cause hurt” with students. 
  
 Olsen said the handouts were not created by the teacher, but instead were pulled from a statewide database of classroom materials that teachers can reference on a variety of topics. 
  
 Utah State Office of Education spokesman Mark Peterson said the materials on the Utah Education Network database are user-submitted, and it was unclear how long the “$5.00 Date” handouts had been there or who had placed them online. 
  
 Peterson said the materials are submitted by licensed educators. 
  
 “Larry Flynt can’t come in and upload something, but a teacher from ‘X’ high school can,” he explained. 
  
 Peterson said the handouts were “clearly inappropriate” and had been removed from the database. 
  
 Oxborrow and Mulligan questioned why the assignment was part of the adult roles and financial literacy class in the first place, and they said they were glad the district and state responded so quickly. 
  
 “It’s just not OK,” Oxborrow said. |||||