It looked at alternatives and outlined three options, one based on property, the others on land and income.
The cross-party body believed any new system should continue to be one of "general tax" rather than a "system of charges for specific services".
Scottish councils typically raise 15p of every pound spent from council tax.
The predominant view of the commission is that local government's tax base should, if it could be proved feasible, be broadened to include income
The report has not recommended any particular option but hopes to inform the debate ahead of next year's Holyrood election.
The current system contributes £2bn to help pay for local government expenditure such as refuse and recycling, education, roads maintenance and leisure facilities.
The commission outlined three alternatives which could bring in a similar sum of money;
Its report said: "The predominant view of the commission is that local government's tax base should, if it could be proved feasible, be broadened to include income.
"Income is widely perceived to be a fairer basis on which to levy a tax, although a locally variable income tax presents substantial administrative challenges."
The reform group was set up by the Scottish government and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities in February 2015 and was tasked with examining alternatives that would "deliver a fairer system of local taxation".
It listed a number of recommendations, including;
The report added: "We believe this is the time to reform local taxation. We have conducted more in-depth analysis of potential forms of tax available than ever before to inform debate and the construction of detailed proposals.
"We have concluded that there is no one ideal tax but we have shown that there are ways of designing a better tax system.
"There is now a real prospect of beginning a programme to make local taxation fairer - more progressive, more stable, more efficient and more locally empowering."
Marco Biagi,Scottish government's Minister for Local Government - "We will consider the findings of the report carefully and we will set out our detailed proposals for reform by the end of the parliamentary term, embodying the principles of the commission's report."
Jackie Baillie, Scottish Labour's public services spokeswoman - "This is a comprehensive report that looks at a number of different options for local government finance. The challenge for all political parties now is to consider these options and come forward with their solution to put to the electorate next year."
Willie Rennie, Scottish Liberal Democrat leader - "This report sets out plenty of alternatives for the reform of local government finance but after eight years, people might have expected more from a government that said it was committed to reforming the council tax system."
Ruth Davidson, Scottish Conservative leader - "The Scottish Conservatives decided to set up an independent commission into fair and competitive taxation last year, headed by Sir Iain McMillan, to study these issues. Once that has reported, we will set out our own plans on local taxation."
Andy Wightman, Scottish Green MSP candidate and commission member - "The Scottish Green Party will consider the findings of the commission carefully and bring forward proposals in our manifesto for the 2016 Holyrood election."