Newt Gingrich, the latest candidate to surge to the top of the Republican presidential race, said the United States and its allies could "break Iran in a year" as he and his rivals looked to use a debate Tuesday night to boost their foreign policy and national security credentials. 
  
 Republican presidential candidates from left, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, businessman Herman Cain, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, and Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., applaud on stage before... (Associated Press) 
  
 Republican presidential candidates from left, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, businessman Herman Cain and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich stand on stage before a Republican presidential debate... (Associated Press) 
  
 Republican presidential candidates from left, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney shakes hands with businessman Herman Cain, as former House Speaker Newt Gingrich stands on stage before a Republican... (Associated Press) 
  
 Gingrich, speaker of the House of Representatives in the 1990s, said that ending gasoline sales to Iran and sabotaging its refineries would lead to the collapse of the Iranian government and end its nuclear ambitions. 
  
 He said he would bomb Iran only as a last resort and with a goal of bringing about the downfall of the government. 
  
 This was the second debate in less than two weeks to focus on foreign affairs in a race otherwise dominated by domestic issues. Republicans see the weak U.S. economy as President Barack Obama's biggest vulnerability. 
  
 It came six weeks before the first nominating contest, the Iowa caucuses. Candidates were looking to use the debate to build or _ for Gingrich and fellow front-runner Mitt Romney _ sustain momentum. 
  
 The candidates sparred over how far America should go in sacrificing liberty in order to prevent terrorist attacks. 
  
 Gingrich backed the anti-terrorism law known as the Patriot Act, which was passed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and has been criticized by civil libertarians. But Congressman Ron Paul warned that the law is "unpatriotic because it undermines our liberties." 
  
 Paul went against most of the other candidates with his views not only on the Patriot Act, but also in his calls to cut aid to Israel, withdraw troops from Afghanistan and decriminalize drugs. His libertarian views have won him a solid core of supporters but he has been unable to break into the top tier of the race, 
  
 Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, has led the race for most of the year, but has been unable to expand his support beyond the 25 percent level. Meanwhile, a series of rivals have surged to the top, only to fade. They include Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, Texas Gov. Rick Perry and businessman Herman Cain. 
  
 Gingrich is near the top of many polls now, but it is not clear if he can stay at the top. Beyond questions about his divorces, extramarital affairs and business dealings, his past views on climate change and other issues could be seen as too moderate for some conservatives. 
  
 Except for longshot candidate Jon Huntsman, Obama's former ambassador to China, the Republican contenders generally lack significant foreign affairs experience, so the debate offered the potential for gaffes. 
  
 Cain's candidacy has been damaged already by a rambling answer to an interviewer's question about Libya. That further set back a campaign struggling to recover from a sexual harassment scandal. 
  
 At Tuesday's debate, Cain said he would support an Israeli military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities only if he were convinced it would work. 
  
 Debates have been particularly troublesome for Perry, whose hopes for reviving his fading candidacy were damaged after a much-mocked stumble at a recent debate, when he couldn't remember the names of all three federal agencies he wanted to eliminate. 
  
 With unemployment stubbornly high and the economy sluggish to recover from recession, the candidates have been driving the foreign policy discussion back to pocketbook issues at home. 
  
 A day earlier, a bipartisan congressional panel charged with recommending measures to reduce the giant U.S. deficit declared an impasse. That could trigger deep cuts in 2013 spreading across military as well as domestic spending. 
  
 Many of the presidential candidates have called America's $15 trillion government debt a national security threat, especially because China is the single largest creditor. Obama's own defense secretary, Leon Panetta, has said big Pentagon cuts "would lead to a hollow force incapable of sustaining the missions it is assigned." ||||| Some of Newt Gingrich's critics have been taking him on over his past stands on immigration, and Michele Bachmann joined them onstage, pointing out that the former House Speaker supported, as she said, the federal DREAM Act. 
  
 Gingrich disagreed, but did say that he would support allowing some immigrants to stay and join the military, the one portion of the DREAM Act he said he liked. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset POLITICO 44 
  
 "I did vote for the Simpson-Mazzoli Act … He signed it because we were gonna get two things in return: we were gonna secure the border and we were gonna get a guest-worker program with employer enforcement. We got neither," said Gingrich. 
  
 Bachmann twisted the knife on Gingrich, saying, "We need to move away from magnets." 
  
 Mitt Romney chimed in about strict enforcement of immigration laws, and Gingrich replied, "The party that says it’s the party of the family is going to adopt a policy that destroys families that have been here a quarter century … finding a way to create legality so they are not separated from their families.” ||||| The debate came at another time of change in the race for the Republican nomination. For the first time, former House speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) assumed one of the center positions onstage, an acknowledgment of his sudden rise in the polls. He used his newfound status as the leader in two polls to effectively display his experience in dealing with national security issues. 
  
 But an answer on immigration, in which he said he does not think that the nation should deport many of the millions of immigrants who have been in the country illegally for years, could put him at odds with some conservatives in his party — the same issue that caused problems for Texas Gov. Rick Perry earlier this fall. After the debate, Gingrich defended himself against possible criticism, saying he was not advocating an amnesty program. 
  
 The tone of the debate, the 11th among the candidates this year, was largely civil, and the session ranged widely on both domestic and international issues, though there was no discussion of the European debt crisis and little attention paid to China. Despite the differences that emerged, the majority of the candidates offered a generally more hawkish view of the world than that enunciated by the Obama administration. 
  
 In contrast to some previous debates, Tuesday’s forum is likely to have only a limited impact on the overall race. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney once again delivered a solid performance. 
  
 Rep. Ron Paul (Tex.) stood out by disagreeing most significantly with the other candidates. Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman Jr. used the opportunity to take on his rivals, especially Romney. 
  
 The debate was held at DAR Constitution Hall in the District and was sponsored by CNN, the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute. CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer served as the moderator, with questions from AEI and Heritage scholars. Eight candidates participated. The others were business executive Herman Cain, Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) and former senator Rick Santorum (Pa.). 
  
 Romney, Huntsman spar 
  
 One of the sharpest exchanges came between Romney and Huntsman over Afghanistan. Romney argued that Obama was moving too rapidly to bring out U.S. troops and said he favors maintaining a substantial presence for several more years. 
  
 Asked his view, Huntsman said, “I totally disagree.” He said money that is being spent on the war in Afghanistan could be better used rebuilding the U.S. economy. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. ||||| In his first debate since jumping into the lead in the polls, Newt Gingrich took the lead on a controversial topic Tuesday night when he suggested that his fellow Republicans might reconsider their outright opposition to amnesty for illegal immigrants.“I do not believe that the people of the United States are going to take people who’ve been here for a quarter of a century … [and] separate them from their families and expel them,” Gingrich said during a discussion about illegal immigration and border security. “I do believe we should control the border. I do believe we should have very severe penalties.”Then he took it a step further.“I don’t believe that the party that says it's the party of the family is going to say it’s going to destroy families that have been here for more than a quarter of a century,” he said. “I'm prepared to take the heat in saying: Let's be humane in enforcing the law."It was a bold statement that may get the former House speaker into trouble with conservatives.In a post-debate interview, Gingrich stood by his remarks.“It’s important for us to unify the country by having an honest conversation, not just a series of slogans,” he said. ||||| Doomsday cuts! Drones! Unpronounceable names! 
  
 Republican presidential candidates take to the airwaves tonight to debate foreign policy and national security. Issues from Pentagon spending to America’s place in the world promise to be front and center. 
  
 Republican presidential candidates line up before a debate in Washington, Tuesday. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) 
  
 Tonight’s debate, hosted by the Heritage Foundation, the American Enterprise Institute and CNN, comes just one day after the deficit supercommittee threw in the towel. The Pentagon faces steep cuts of about $500 billion to $600 billion over the next decade, and that means GOP rivals have a chance to forward their own ideas about how to shore up national defense in an era of tight budgets. 
  
 The Republican debate, the second to focus exclusively on foreign policy, takes place against the background of dramatic events overseas, particularly in the Middle East. Protests in Egypt may accelerate a handover to civilian rule; Iran faces fresh questions about its nuclear program; and Syria’s crackdown on protesters has brought calls for sanctions. Elsewhere, the U.S. faces complex foreign policy challenges, from a debt crisis in Europe to an authoritarian shift in Russia. 
  
 And then there are the wars. U.S. troops are set to depart Iraq by the end of the year, and the U.S. military is taking the first gradual steps toward withdrawal from Afghanistan. That presents a target-rich environment for candidates who want to take shots at the Obama administration, but it also may underscore fissures within the Republican Party, with candidates such as Rep. Ron Paul of Texas calling for an end to U.S. entanglements overseas. 
  
 The 2012 campaign also comes amid a dramatic shift in America’s strategic priorities. The administration and the national-security establishment have recently turned their focus to the Asia-Pacific region, and candidates may have a chance to discuss China’s military and economic rise. Shadow wars in Pakistan, Yemen and the Horn of Africa continue to test U.S. counterterrorism strategy. 
  
 Expect some candidates to stake out hawkish positions. Gov. Rick Perry has called for a no-fly zone over Syria; putative front-runner Mitt Romney has pledged to buy more warships; and Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota wants Iraq to reimburse the U.S. for its sacrifice in blood and treasure. Newt Gingrich, now leading in the polls, has a foreign policy team that includes several Reagan administration veterans. And Herman Cain may get creative with the names of world leaders. 
  
 Join Washington Wire as political reporter Danny Yadron and national security reporters Julian E. Barnes and Nathan Hodge watch the action live, starting at 8 p.m. EST. |||||