A South Korean spokesman told the Yonhap news agency the projectiles were fired at about 10:00 local time (01:00 GMT) from Wonsan on the east coast.
They were either rockets or guided missiles, the ministry said.
Correspondents say it is being seen as an act of defiance against the sanctions.
Hours earlier, the UN Security Council unanimously voted to impose some of its strongest ever sanctions against North Korea. The new measures are in reaction to North Korea's recent nuclear test and satellite launch, both of which violated existing sanctions.
They will result in all cargo going to and from the country being inspected, while 16 new individuals and 12 organisations have been blacklisted.
Tougher economic sanctions are on the way - what impact will they have on North Koreans?
Is it better to deal with Kim Jong-un using carrots or sticks?
North Korea is believed to have more than 1,000 missiles of varying capabilities. Here is a look at the country's arsenal.
All shipments of goods to North Korea must be inspected under new sanctions. Chinese city Dandong handles much of North Korea's trade.
The United States and North Korea's long-standing ally China spent seven weeks discussing the new sanctions.
US President Barack Obama said the international community was "speaking with one voice" to tell the North it "must abandon these dangerous programmes and choose a better path for its people".
South Korea's President Park Geun-hye welcomed the sanctions, saying she hoped the North "will now abandon its nuclear development programme and embark on a path of change".
North Korea insists its missile programme is purely scientific in nature, but the US, South Korea and even its ally China say such launches like the one which put a satellite in orbit last month are aimed at developing inter-continental ballistic missiles.
The North claimed its January nuclear test - the fourth since 2006 - was a test of its hydrogen bomb technology.
The firing of the missiles is being seen in South Korea as a signal of the North's anger and defiance. There is an expectation in South Korea that more may follow. The short-range missiles were not contrary to international law though longer range missiles would have been.
There is a ritual which has been enacted many times before with a ratcheting up of tension. In this case, the nuclear test and rocket launch earlier in the year were followed by South Korea closing a joint industrial venture and the UN sanctions.
Next week, there are previously arranged and regular joint exercises between South Korean and US troops. Each year when they happen, North Korea gets very angry, saying they are practice for an invasion. This year the tension will be even higher.
The rhetoric from Pyongyang has been fearsome. The state media likened the South Korean president to a bat who lives in a dingy cave. They said she would "lift her skirt" for the Americans.
All this is par for the course. The big question is whether North Korea holds a fifth nuclear test.
Outside observers who study satellite imagery say that it's very hard to tell when this might happen. The fourth test came out of the blue. North Korea has succeeded in hiding the tell-tale signs of preparation and may do some work under cloud cover away from the prying eyes of satellites.