Just One More Thing... 
  
 We have sent you a verification email. Please check your email and click on the link to activate your profile. 
  
 If you do not receive the verification message within a few minutes of signing up, please check your Spam or Junk folder. 
  
 Close ||||| A Jackson Police Department officer who allegedly lied about being shot by an unidentified suspect she described as a black male has been arrested on multiple charges and taken to the Butts County Detention Center. 
  
 The GBI secured four criminal arrests warrants for false statements, tampering with evidence, interference with government property, and violation of Oath of Office. 
  
 After an investigation, it has been determined that there was never a suspect shooter at large in Jackson, Georgia. 
  
 Jackson County officer terminated 
  
 The Georgia Bureau of Investigation issued warrants for the arrest of Sherry Hall, who was fired on Friday. Hall is accused of issuing false statements and writings and concealment of facts, tampering with evidence, interfering with government property and violation of oath. 
  
 Hall reportedly then fired two shots into the wood line near Camellia Court using a gun issued to her by the Jackson Police Department. 
  
 Warrants issued by a GBI investigator allege Hall used a second firearm, also issued to her by the police department, to plant a shell casing she said came from a gun fired by the suspect. The warrants said GBI didn't initially know about that gun. The warrants say Hall used gun before defacing it. She also reportedly didn't tell authorities that she had been issued the gun. 
  
 Officer said she was shot, protected by vest 
  
 At the time of the alleged shooting, Jackson's Police Chief said the gunman fired one shot and Officer Hall fired at least two shots back. Hall said she was struck in the abdomen, but protected by her vest. 
  
 GBI took over the case. Agents combed the area and knocked on doors trying to find clues to lead them to the shooter. Hall was placed on paid administrative leave and offered counseling to grieve. She was recovering at home. 
  
 "I’ve talked with her, she’s in good spirits and really she is ready to try to come back to work," said the chief. "She’s very professional at all costs, she’s highly trained, she gives it her all.” 
  
 Previous felony conviction 
  
 Records show Hall has also been previously charged with a felony. She was charged with first-degree criminal damage to property more than 20 years ago in the 90s after an arrest in Spalding County. She was fined $1,700 and received five years of probation. 
  
 CBS46's Adam Harding also confirmed that the Jackson police chief knew about Hall's criminal record, but said she was cleared by a Police Officer Standards Organization prior to being hired. 
  
 Copyright 2016 WGCL-TV (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved. ||||| A Georgia police officer charged with making up a story about being shot by a suspect has been fired, the Jackson police chief said Saturday. 
  
 Officer Sherry Hall made a police radio call earlier this month and falsely said she had been shot, Georgia Bureau of Investigation Special Agent Joe Wooten said in a news conference Friday. 
  
 Jackson Police Officer Sherry Hall has been fired after lying about being shot. (CBS 46 News) 
  
 She has now lost her job, Police Chief James Morgan announced Saturday, according to WGXA. 
  
 Police had previously said she was shot in the abdomen on Sept. 13, but her bulletproof vest protected her. Hall said several times during interviews with investigators that she was shot by a black man near some woods. 
  
 St. Louis officer accused of planting gun on man that he shot 
  
 Officer Sherry Hall is accused of making up a story. (13WMAZ News) 
  
 "There is no person out there with a gun shooting at our police officers," Towaliga Judicial Circuit District Attorney Richard Milam said at the news conference. "There is no person out there that needs to be found." 
  
 With News Wire Services ||||| JACKSON, Ga. -- Authorities are charging a Georgia police officer with fabricating a story that she was shot by a suspect she described only as a black man. 
  
 The Georgia Bureau of Investigation said Friday that agents have obtained warrants charging Jackson police Officer Sherry Hall with making false statements, tampering with evidence, interference with government property and violation of oath of office. 
  
 The GBI says Hall made a police radio call early on Sept. 13, and said she had been shot. Hall said she saw a black man near a woodline while she was on routine patrol, and she approached him to ask him why he was there. He became argumentative and shot her, she claimed. She said she fired two shots at the suspect with the Glock .22 issued to her by the Jackson Police Department, but said he fled into the woods. 
  
 Hall is white. Police said previously that Hall was shot in the abdomen but her bulletproof vest protected her. 
  
 Jackson police chief James Morgan said he called in the GBI to conduct an independent investigation. According to the GBI, Hall told investigators she hadn’t turned on her police car’s video or audio recording devices. But when investigators turned up video and audio from the unit’s hard drive, they found her statements inconsistent with the recordings and other evidence. 
  
 The GBI says investigators determined she was not a victim of a shooting. 
  
 At a press conference Friday, investigators and prosecutors didn’t say whether they believe Hall shot herself, citing the ongoing investigation. But they said they do not suspect she had accomplices. 
  
 Her claim that an armed suspect was still on the loose instilled fear in the small central Georgia city of just over 5,000. Jackson mayor Kay Pippin said she was “disappointed anyone would contribute to such fears.” 
  
 “For two weeks, the good people of the city of Jackson poured out their hearts in expressions of concern and support for what we believed to be a police officer – one of our own – harmed in the line of duty, Pippin said. 
  
 Hall’s daughter spoke to CBS affiliate WGCL shortly after the incident, pleading for the gunman to turn himself in. 
  
 Friday, officials reassured the community there was no gunman at large. 
  
 Morgan said Hall is on paid administrative leave. She had been with the department for about three months before the incident and had been in law enforcement for about four years, Morgan said. 
  
 Officials said she had checked herself into a private facility, but wouldn’t elaborate. She was expected to be arrested and booked on the charges upon her release. |||||