Scientists say the effects of Hurricane Harvey, which has been stalled over the Texas Gulf Coast since Friday and dumped more than 20 inches of rain in some areas, were worsened by a lethal confluence of meteorological events: warm water in the Gulf of Mexico that intensified the rainfall, and a lack of winds in the upper atmosphere that could have steered Harvey away from land. 
  
 Exacerbating the situation, said Hal Needham, a storm surge expert and founder of the private firm Marine Weather & Climate in Galveston, Tex., was that the storm surge elevated Galveston Bay, blocking drainage of the rain that pummeled coastal and inland areas. 
  
 “A two- or three-foot storm surge alone would not have been catastrophic,” Mr. Needham said. “It was all these ingredients coming together.” 
  
 And it’s not over. 
  
 Dennis Feltgen, a spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s National Hurricane Center in Miami, said the driving rains would continue for another two or three days, pouring an additional 15 to 25 inches over parts of Southeast Texas. Some areas, he said, could see as much as 50 inches of rain. 
  
 “This is unprecedented,” he said. 
  
 Yet it does have some parallels. J. Marshall Shepherd, director of the atmospheric sciences program at the University of Georgia, said Harvey is very much like Allison, a tropical storm that flooded Houston badly in 2001 because it lingered over the city and dumped prodigious amounts of rain. 
  
 “In some ways, I think this event is going to far surpass what we saw in Tropical Storm Allison,” Dr. Shepherd said. The atmosphere is not helping to push it anywhere else. “The steering currents that would normally lift it out of that region aren’t there,” he said. 
  
 Hurricanes are essentially large weather engines fueled by the warm waters of the ocean below. 
  
 The mind-boggling amount of rainfall during Harvey is a function of the storm sitting by the Gulf of Mexico and continuing to draw moisture directly from it. Because of the orientation of the storm, Dr. Shepherd said, “you’ve just got this stream of moisture firehosing into the Houston region,” as the moisture is constantly replenished by the gulf. “This could go down as the worst flood disaster in U.S. history.” 
  
 Scientists are increasingly able to link some extreme weather events to climate change, but when it comes to hurricanes, many say there remain a number of unknowns. What is clear, though, is that rising global temperatures warm the oceans, which causes more water to evaporate into the atmosphere. ||||| Climate scientists, who specialize in thinking about the Earth system as a whole, are often reticent to link any one weather event to global climate change. But they say that aspects of the case of Hurricane Harvey—and the recent history of tropical cyclones worldwide—suggest global warming is making a bad situation worse. 
  
 It may not be obvious why global warming has anything to do with hurricane strength. Climate change is caused by the release of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere. These gases prevent some of the sun’s rays from bouncing back into space, trapping heat in the planetary system and raising air temperatures all over the world. 
  
 As the world warms, evaporation speeds up. So on avg there's more water vapour for a storm to sweep up & dump now, compared to 70 years ago. https://t.co/M4R9OFFZt9 — Katharine Hayhoe (@KHayhoe) August 24, 2017 
  
 This warmer air causes evaporation to happen faster, which can lead to more moisture in the atmosphere. But that phenomenon alone does not explain climate change’s effects on Harvey. 
  
 Storms like Harvey are helped by one of the consequences of climate change: As the air warms, some of that heat is absorbed by the ocean, which in turn raises the temperature of the sea’s upper layers. 
  
 Harvey benefited from unusually toasty waters in the Gulf of Mexico. As the storm roared toward Houston last week, sea-surface waters near Texas rose to between 2.7 and 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit above average. These waters were some of the hottest spots of ocean surface in the world. The tropical storm, feeding off this unusual warmth, was able to progress from a tropical depression to a category-four hurricane in roughly 48 hours. 
  
 “This is the main fuel for the storm,” says Kevin Trenberth, a senior scientist at the U.S. National Center for Atmospheric Research. “Although these storms occur naturally, the storm is apt to be more intense, maybe a bit bigger, longer-lasting, and with much heavier rainfalls [because of that ocean heat].” 
  
 This also suggests an explanation for one of Harvey’s strangest and scariest behaviors. The storm intensified up until the moment of landfall, achieving category-four strength hours before it slammed into the Texas coast. This is not only rare for tropical cyclones in the western Gulf of Mexico: It may be unique. In the past 30 years of records, no storms west of Florida have intensified in the last 12 hours before landfall. 
  
 Why do storms normally weaken—and why didn’t Harvey? As mentioned above, hurricanes feed and grow on warm ocean surface waters. But as they grow, their strong winds often pick up seawater, churning the oceans and moving the warmest waters deep below the surface. The same winds also bring newer, colder water closer to the atmosphere, which usually serves to drain energy and weaken the storm. ||||| "Anyone in North Houston have a boat and can rescue a 3 &6 yo, mom, gramma and grandpa and 2 dogs?" 
  
  
  
 When there's a natural disaster in one of America's biggest metro areas, residents rely on local TV and radio information. But they reach for their smartphones to seek help. Sunday provided a vivid demonstration of how social media can help, and also sometimes hurt, in a crisis. 
  
  
  
 Some Houstonians posted pleas for rescues on Facebook and Twitter because 911 circuits were overloaded on Sunday. I first noticed this when I woke up at 5 in the morning. Residents, caught off guard by the rising floodwaters, were already tweeting their addresses and phone numbers to local officials and TV stations. I noticed some local journalists vigilantly forwarded the messages to authorities. One particularly web-savvy official, Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez, responded to the requests in almost real time. Take a look at his feed here. 
  
  
  
 Urgent requests for rescues piled up on community-oriented Facebook pages. According to Reuters, over 70,000 people "formed a Facebook group that many of them used to call for help." Just now on CNN, I heard a rescuer named Seth say to correspondent Brian Todd, "We've got a lot of calls coming in on Facebook right now." 
  
  
  
 But texting 911 is not the same as calling 911. "Do not report your information on social media sites," the U.S. Coast Guard said. 
  
  
  
 Some people posted pictures to emphasize how high the flood waters were. I found myself thinking back to Superstorm Sandy, when New Yorkers chronicled the flooding of lower Manhattan with tweets and videos. The difference now is that this Texas flooding is forecast to continue for days. Residents will be able to tell their own stories on the web the whole time. (Imagine instant video diaries from inside the Superdome during Katrina.) ||||| Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more |||||