LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP) In a victory for individual athletes over governing bodies, sport’s highest court has suspended IAAF rules governing women who have high levels of male hormones. 
  
 The rules requiring some female athletes to get medical clearance were introduced in 2011, after South African 800-meter runner Caster Semenya was sidelined for almost a year after winning the 2009 world title when she was 18. 
  
 However, the Court of Arbitration for Sport said Monday the world athletics body failed to prove that women with naturally high levels of testosterone had a competitive edge. 
  
 Article continues below ... 
  
 ”In the absence of such evidence, the CAS Panel was unable to conclude that hyperandrogenic female athletes may benefit from such a significant performance advantage that it is necessary to exclude them from competing in the female category,” the court’s interim ruling said in an appeal brought by sprinter Dutee Chand of India. 
  
 Chand was cleared to compete by the court which gave the IAAF body until July 24, 2017, to present new scientific evidence. 
  
 The IAAF’s rules on hyperandrogenism- or the presence of high levels of testosterone – will be declared void if no evidence is presented by the deadline. 
  
 Responding Monday, the athletics body said the rules were passed after ”a lengthy and comprehensive consultation” with the International Olympic Committee. 
  
 ”The IAAF will now meet as soon as possible with its experts and with the IOC and its experts to discuss how best to address this interim ruling,” it said in a statement. 
  
 Chand, now 19, appealed to CAS after India’s athletics body barred her from competition last year, forcing her to miss the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland. 
  
 She challenged the legal validity of the IAAF’s rules – at a four-day hearing at CAS in March – rather than undergo medical treatment. 
  
 CAS had previously let Chand run in international events pending a verdict. 
  
 In its interim ruling published Monday, the court panel of three lawyers said officials at the Monaco-based governing body had acted with good intentions. 
  
 ”The panel wishes to reiterate that its conclusion does not reflect any bad faith or incompetence on the part of the IAAF,” the ruling said. 
  
 In the Semenya case, she was eventually cleared by the IAAF to return to competition, and won a silver medal in the 800 at the 2012 London Olympics. 
  
 The court’s 161-page ruling noted that the IAAF has dealt with other athletes under the hyperandrogenism rules since April 2011. The exact number was redacted in the document. 
  
 ”None of the athletes involved has ever been named in the press as the subject of an investigation,” the ruling stated. ||||| It continued: “Nevertheless, since there are separate categories of male and female competition, it is necessary for the I.A.A.F. to formulate a basis for the division of athletes into male and female categories for the benefit of the broad class of female athletes. The basis chosen should be necessary, reasonable and proportionate to the legitimate objective being pursued.” 
  
 Chand, an 18-and-under national champion in the 100 meters and an Olympic hopeful, was found to have hyperandrogenism and barred from competing against women in 2014 because her natural levels of testosterone exceeded guidelines for female athletes. Now, Chand and other women who may have similar conditions can participate in international competition, perhaps including next year’s Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. 
  
 “What I had to face last year was not fair,” Chand said Monday in a statement released by Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg L.L.P., a Toronto law firm that represented her. “I have a right to run and compete. But that right was taken away from me. I was humiliated for something that I can’t be blamed for. I am glad that no other female athlete will have to face what I have faced, thanks to this verdict.” 
  
 The panel was ruling specifically on track and field’s regulation, but the Court of Arbitration for Sport’s wide jurisdiction means its decision is likely to serve as a precedent for other sports around the world. 
  
 It was just the latest high-profile case to confront the intensely disputed boundaries of fairness in track and field in recent years. The South African sprinter Oscar Pistorius, for example, eventually won the right to compete at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London using prosthetics. In a case more clearly linked to that of Chand, the South African runner Caster Semenya in 2009 was barred from competition and reinstated nearly a year later after a series of sex tests and much publicity. 
  
 Two opponents of Semenya’s objected to her participation in the 2009 world championships in Berlin, where she won gold in the 800 meters. |||||