Mexico’s incoming administration has agreed to support a new policy from the Trump White House that would require migrants seeking asylum to remain in Mexico as their requests are processed, The Washington Post reported Saturday. 
  
 Mexican officials and senior members of president-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador’s transition team told The Post that the incoming administration accepted the plan, called “Remain in Mexico,” in a sharp change to long-standing asylum rules that allowed migrants to file asylum claims after entering the U.S. either legally or illegally. 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 “For now, we have agreed to this policy of Remain in Mexico,” Olga Sánchez Cordero, Mexico’s incoming interior minister and the top domestic policy official for the president-elect, told The Post, calling it a “short-term solution.” 
  
 “The medium- and long-term solution is that people don’t migrate,” Sánchez Cordero added. “Mexico has open arms and everything, but imagine, one caravan after another after another, that would also be a problem for us.” 
  
 Neither the White House or the Department of Homeland Security immediately responded to requests for comment from The Hill. 
  
 While U.S. officials told The Post they are wary the deal could fall apart, they view it as a breakthrough in negotiations with Mexico that they believe could deter further migration to the southern border. 
  
 “Since the Mexican Presidential election in July, the USG has been working jointly with the current Mexican Government and the incoming administration of López Obrador to identify and address shared issues of concern. These include our joint desire to promote beneficial legitimate trade and travel, interest in ensuring that those traveling to our borders do so safely and orderly, concern for the safety and security of vulnerable migrant populations, and respect for each nation’s sovereignty,” James McCament, acting under secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security, said in a statement to The Hill. 
  
 “We appreciate the leadership and partnership the Mexican government has shown on these and other challenging issues.” 
  
 Human rights advocates have voiced their disapproval of President Trump Donald John TrumpKobach ‘very concerned’ voter fraud may have happened in North Carolina Trump Jr. makes fun of Ocasio-Cortez by sharing meme that suggests socialists eat dogs Trump’s 2020 campaign will be headquartered at Trump Tower: report MORE's hardline immigration policies, including the Remain in Mexico plan. They say leaving migrants in Mexican border towns, which have seen intense violence as drug cartels fight each other for smuggling routes into the U.S., are likely to endanger people. 
  
 “We have not seen a specific proposal, but any policy that would leave individuals stranded in Mexico would inevitably put people in danger,” Lee Gelernt, an ACLU attorney whose team has successfully sued the Trump administration over its immigration initiatives, told The Post. 
  
 “The Administration ought to concentrate on providing a fair and lawful asylum process in the U.S. rather than inventing more and more ways to try to short-circuit it,” he added. 
  
 News of the policy comes days after a federal judge prevented the Trump administration from blocking asylum claims from migrants who do not enter the U.S. legally. 
  
 “Whatever the scope of the President’s authority, he may not rewrite the immigration laws to impose a condition that Congress has expressly forbidden,” U.S. District Judge Jon Tigar wrote in California. 
  
 “Asylum seekers will be put at increased risk of violence and other harms at the border, and many will be deprived of meritorious asylum claims,” he added. “The government offers nothing in support of the new rule that outweighs the need to avoid these harms.” 
  
 The president has doubled down on his hardline stance on immigration and asylum as a group of thousands of Central American migrants make their way to the southern border, many seeking to claim asylum. 
  
 He has argued that the caravan puts the U.S. at risk because some documented gang members are in the group, going as far as sending thousands of troops to defend the border, something many Democrats and some Republican lawmakers have called unnecessary. 
  
 “Our military is being mobilized at the Southern Border. Many more troops coming. We will NOT let these Caravans, which are also made up of some very bad thugs and gang members, into the U.S. Our Border is sacred, must come in legally. TURN AROUND!” Trump tweeted last month. 
  
 Our military is being mobilized at the Southern Border. Many more troops coming. We will NOT let these Caravans, which are also made up of some very bad thugs and gang members, into the U.S. Our Border is sacred, must come in legally. TURN AROUND! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 31, 2018 
  
 The asylum deal reportedly took shape last week following a meeting between Mexico's incoming foreign minister and U.S. officials including Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen Kirstjen Michele NielsenLópez Obrador sworn in as Mexico's president Nielsen asks Cabinet departments to send civilian police to US-Mexico border The Hill's Morning Report — Markets on edge over Trump, Xi trade negotiations MORE and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Michael (Mike) Richard PompeoMattis: Investigation into killing of Khashoggi is ongoing The Hill's Morning Report — Presented by T-Mobile — Congress to act soon to avoid shutdown UN to warn of famine conditions in Yemen: report MORE. 
  
 Nielsen has long faced criticism from Trump for supposedly being too soft on immigration and has been fighting to keep her job since earlier this month amid reports that Trump has instructed his aides that he plans to replace her. ||||| Dior is calling the backlash for having Jennifer Lawrence as spokesperson for its Mexican-inspired Cruise 2019 collection "not at all justified." 
  
 Videos and photos of Lawrence sporting and talking about the new fashion line have been removed from the brand's social media. However, in a statement to Fox News, a Dior rep claims that the decision to take down the posts had nothing to do with the backlash. 
  
 "This has nothing to do with Jennifer and the backlash, which is not at all justified," a representative for the brand told Fox News in a statement. "Also, Dior is working with Mexican photographers and commissioned 8 Mexican women photographers to shoot in Mexico in order to promote the cruise collection as you can see on our Instagram account.” 
  
 Lawrence, who has been the brand’s spokesperson since 2012, was featured in a since-deleted video on Instagram in which she discussed the heritage of the collection. 
  
 “One of the main inspirations for this collection is the traditional women riders of Mexico,” she said, according to Teen Vogue. “So I’m really excited that this collection is looking at and celebrating these women’s heritage through such a modern lens.” 
  
 However, fans were quick to note that Lawrence, a white woman, is not necessarily the best spokesperson for a collection inspired by Mexican heritage. Many also took issue with Lawrence’s reveal that the shoot for the campaign took place in California and not Mexico. 
  
 Dior has since removed Lawrence’s video interview on the collection as well as photos of her sporting the clothes. They have indeed been replaced with other models in shoots done by female Mexican photographers in Mexico. 
  
 Jennifer Lawrence did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. However, the backlash over the situation continues. 
  
 “Lol. Wut?! Sooooooooo, #Dior & #JenniferLawrence wanna celebrate traditional Mexican women riders thru a “modern lens”...by having a rich white woman named Jennifer be the face of this campaign? And like they couldn’t think of a better landscape to shoot than in California?! Hmm, I dunno, maybe...like...shoot...in...Mexico...with...a...Mexican...actress like Salma Hayek, Karla Souza, Jessica Alba, Selena Gomez, Eva Longoria, or many others. But I guess they were all unavailable, so you had to go with Jennifer Lawrence,” wrote Phoebe Robinson, co-host of the popular podcast “2 Dope Queens,” echoing the sentiment of many who originally commented on the post. ||||| CLOSE "Red Sparrow" star Jennifer Lawrence reveals she will be spending the next year "traveling around the United States trying to get young people engaged politically on a local level." (Feb. 27) AP 
  
 March 4, 2018; Hollywood, CA, USA; Jennifer Lawrence arrives at the 90th Academy Awards at Dolby Theatre. Mandatory Credit: Dan MacMedan-USA TODAY NETWORK (Via lyDrop) (Photo: Dan MacMedan, Dan MacMedan-USA TODAY NETWORK) 
  
 Jennifer Lawrence and Dior are taking some heat for an ad campaign that features clothing inspired by Mexican women but features no Mexican women. 
  
 The ad shows Lawrence, an Academy Award-winning actress, modeling elaborate dresses and ornately embroidered handbags created to resemble the style of escaramuza horseback riders but with a "modern" edge. 
  
 Escaramuza is a female equestrian team in the traditional Mexican rodeo known as charrería. 
  
 "One of the main inspirations for this collection is the traditional women riders of Mexico. So I'm really excited that this collection is looking at and celebrating these women's heritage through such a modern lens," Lawrence says in the Dior ad. "We've been shooting in a beautiful ranch in California with rolling hills, and I can't think of a better landscape to highlight this collection." 
  
 More: Paris Jackson apologizes for Harper's Bazaar Singapore cover backlash 
  
 More: Gigi Hadid, 'Vogue Italia' apologize for darkening the model's skin tone 
  
 But some don't think it celebrates the culture at all. 
  
 Phoebe Robinson, co-star of the popular podcast "2 Dope Queens," shared Lawrence's ad to Instagram on Tuesday calling it "ignorant and gross." 
  
 Robinson — whose podcast features female comedians, comedians of color and LGBT comedians — slammed Dior and Lawrence for trying to celebrate Mexican riders "by having a rich white woman named Jennifer be the face of this campaign." 
  
 Here's what the post said: 
  
 Lol. Wut?! Sooooooooo, #Dior & #JenniferLawrencewanna celebrate traditional Mexican women riders thru a “modern lens”...by having a rich white woman named Jennifer be the face of this campaign? And like they couldn’t think of a better landscape to shoot than in California?! Hmm, I dunno, maybe...like...shoot...in...Mexico...with...a...Mexican...actress like Salma Hayek, Karla Souza, Jessica Alba, Selena Gomez, Eva Longoria, or many others. But I guess they were all unavailable, so you had to go with Jennifer Lawrence. The audacity to call this (expletive) modern because it’s worn by a white woman is ignorant and gross, but unfortunately, not surprising. Please comment below with Mexican designers I should support and give my dolls to, heauxes, because this boo boo (expletive) Ricky’s Halloween store Mexican cosplay is not the jam. 
  
 As of Wednesday morning, the Instagram post had more than 9,000 likes and hundreds of comments agreeing that the ad is a form of cultural appropriation. 
  
 Dior posted six ads to its Instagram account between Oct. 25-26 that also drew dozens of critical comments. 
  
 "You should be using a Mexican woman and Mexican scenery to be profiting from Mexican cultural inspiration," one person commented on Dior's post. 
  
 "So you went through the whole process of this collection without thinking hmm, maybe this should be shot in Mexico, with a uhhhh I don’t know... Mexican model?" another commented. 
  
 "Why is a white woman modeling Latinx/Mexican inspired fashion? There are plenty of non-white models that could have modeled this beautifully without being appropriated! #dobetter," wrote one of many angry people on Instagram. 
  
 More: 10 bold career risks Jennifer Lawrence has taken on 'The Hunger Games' 10th anniversary 
  
 More: Jennifer Lawrence on nudity, saying 'no' to selfies and 'Red Sparrow' 
  
 One person commented that despite the lack of sensitivity, the ad at least rustled conversation about a seldom-mentioned aspect of Mexican history. 
  
 The Dior line of Mexican-inspired couture by Italian designer Maria Grazia Chiuri, Dior's first female creative director, hit the runway in a May fashion show called "Diorodeo." 
  
 "The escaramuzas are traditional Mexican women riders who have claimed the right to participate in the charreada — an equestrian practice of performing several challenging routines before a crowd — just as the male riders do," according to Dior's website. 
  
 Lawrence signed on as the face of Dior's new perfume in June and has been a brand ambassador for the European luxury goods company since 2012. 
  
 Lawrence, a Louisville native, refers to growing up surrounded by horse racing in one of the Dior ads, saying, "I grew up riding horses, so for me, it reminds of a time before fear, and freedom." 
  
 This isn't the first time the 27-year-old actress has come under scrutiny for cultural insensitivity. 
  
 People on social media went after Lawrence for repeating a story about rubbing her butt on sacred rocks in Hawaii while filming one of "The Hunger Games" movies, BBC reported in 2016. 
  
  
  
 Contributing: Kirby Adams 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/people/2018/11/14/jennifer-lawrence-dior-ad-slammed-mexican-culture-appropriation/2000718002/ |||||