The package arrived at the building in Tribeca in Lower Manhattan that houses Mr. De Niro’s production company and restaurant. It was similar to those discovered a day earlier and was also believed to contain an explosive device, officials said. 
  
 On Wednesday, in the center of Manhattan, the Time Warner Center, an elegant office and shopping complex, was evacuated because of a pipe bomb sent to CNN, which has its New York offices there. It was addressed to John O. Brennan, a critic of Mr. Trump who served as Mr. Obama’s C.I.A. director. 
  
 None of the devices harmed anyone, and it was not immediately clear whether any of them could have. One law enforcement official said investigators were examining the possibility that they were hoax devices that were constructed to look like bombs but would not have exploded. 
  
 The F.B.I. said the devices were similar to one found Monday at the home of George Soros, the billionaire philanthropist and liberal donor, in a New York City suburb. ||||| Cesar Altieri Sayoc, the mail bomb suspect arrested Friday, has struggled for years with “a lack of comprehension of reality,” his former lawyer told CNN. 
  
 Attorney Ronald S. Lowy said Sayoc’s mother and sisters have urged him to seek medical treatment, but he has refused. 
  
 “He thinks there’s nothing wrong with him,” Lowy said shortly after meeting with the suspect’s family. 
  
 Sayoc has been estranged from the family for the past several years, Lowy said, and his mother “can’t understand his (Sayoc's) behavior or views." 
  
 Though FBI searched the mother’s home on Friday, Lowy predicted it would be “a waste of time” since Sayoc hadn’t visited the residence for at least three years. 
  
 Lowy said the closest he came to getting treatment for Sayoc was in 2004 during a drug case that involved steroids. He said he negotiated with prosecutors to have it charged as a narcotics case so his client could get court mandated-treatment. 
  
 It was not immediately clear whether he actually received such treatment. 
  
 Lowy, who said he now represents Sayoc’s mother and two sisters, said they are struggling to come to terms with the allegations. 
  
 “It’s a very emotional time for them,” he said. ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 / Updated By Jonathan Dienst, Tom Winter, Pete Williams, Alex Johnson, Andrew Blankstein, Minyvonne Burke and Corky Siemaszko 
  
 Pipe bombs sent to several prominent critics of President Donald Trump and to CNN's New York newsroom triggered a nationwide investigation and bipartisan condemnation on Wednesday. 
  
 The targets included former President Barack Obama, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, former Attorney General Eric Holder and former CIA Director John Brennan, officials and investigators said. 
  
 Early Wednesday night, federal and local authorities were investigating a suspicious package "similar in appearance" to the earlier packages at a postal facility in south Los Angeles addressed to Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., the FBI said. Los Angeles police said that the facility was evacuated before a bomb squad rendered the package safe and that the investigation had been turned over to the FBI. 
  
 It was the second package addressed to Waters to have been uncovered, the FBI said. The first was discovered in Maryland. 
  
 The earlier bombs — like the explosive device that was found Monday in the mailbox of George Soros' home in Bedford, New York — were all made with PVC pipe, which X-rays indicated likely contained shrapnel, three senior law enforcement officials with direct knowledge of the matter told NBC News. They included a low explosive or a pyrotechnic, as in fireworks, as well as timers — likely digital alarm clocks — to set off the detonators, the sources said. 
  
 Multiple senior bomb technicians briefed on the case said the aspiring bomber had all of the components needed to set off a successful explosion. No arrests have been made. 
  
 An X-ray image of one of the pipe bombs addressed to CNN and prominent critics of President Donald Trump provided by law enforcement officials briefed on the case. NBC News 
  
 The package addressed to Clinton was discovered on Tuesday near the Clintons' home in Chappaqua, New York, a suburb of New York City. The one addressed to Obama was intercepted Wednesday in Washington, they said. 
  
 The mail bombing targets: 
  
 Former President Barack Obama 
  
 Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 
  
 Former Attorney General Eric Holder 
  
 Former CIA Director John Brennan 
  
 Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif. 
  
 Billionaire George Soros 
  
 The package addressed to Brennan misspelled his name and was sent to the wrong network. It was discovered Wednesday at the Manhattan offices of CNN, even though he is a senior national security and intelligence analyst for NBC News and MSNBC. The newsroom was immediately evacuated, and the New York police bomb squad was summoned. 
  
 Speaking Wednesday night at the University of Texas, Brennan said he had "full confidence in my former law enforcement and intelligence colleagues to get to the bottom of this and take the appropriate actions." 
  
 "If I and others are being targeted because we are speaking out and we're living up to our responsibilities as citizens, I think that is a very unfortunate turn of events," he said. 
  
 New York Mayor Bill de Blasio described the packages at a news conference as "clearly an act of terror." 
  
 At the same news conference, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said one of the packages was addressed to him and had been sent to his office. But the FBI said Cuomo's office hadn't received an explosive device, and a spokesman for Cuomo said the package contained computer files on the Proud Boys, a far-right hate group, some of whose members were recently arrested in Manhattan. 
  
 New York police outside the Time Warner Center in New York on Wednesday. Richard Drew / AP 
  
 Saying he was acting "out of an abundance of caution," Cuomo dispatched 100 members of the National Guard to beef up the already tight security at key New York City crossings and the airports and in the subway system. 
  
 A suspected explosive device received at the CNN bureau in New York City on Wednesday. NBC News 
  
 The devices were in manila packages that bore stamps and signatures with the address of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla., whose name also was misspelled, three senior law enforcement officials said. 
  
 Holder's package was mailed to the wrong address, according to law enforcement officials, and it wound up being sent back to Wasserman Schultz's address, where it was intercepted by the Secret Service. 
  
 "We will not be intimidated by this attempted act of violence," Wasserman Schultz said in a statement. "This appalling attack on our democracy must be vigorously prosecuted, and I am deeply disturbed by the way my name was used. 
  
 Speaking in Florida, Clinton thanked the Secret Service, saying it "intercepted the package addressed to us long before it made its way to our home." 
  
 "But it is a troubling time," she said. "And it's a time of deep divisions, and we have to do everything we can to bring our country together. We also have to elect candidates who will try to do the same." 
  
 The spate of suspicious packages came two days after a similar device was found in Soros' mailbox. Like the other targets, Soros has been a harsh critic of Trump. 
  
 In Washington, Trump vowed to "bring those responsible for these despicable acts to justice." 
  
 "In these times, we have to unify, we have to come together and send one very clear, strong, unmistakable message, that acts of political violence have no place of any kind in the United States of America," he said. "I am extremely angry, upset, unhappy about what we witnessed, and we'll get to the bottom of it." 
  
 Earlier, Vice President Mike Pence thanked the Secret Service, the FBI and local law enforcement, saying that the "attempted attacks" against Obama, Clinton and CNN were "cowardly" and that those responsible for the packages "will be brought to justice." 
  
 Trump quickly weighed in with agreement on Twitter, retweeting his vice president. 
  
 Law enforcement officials said the device in Soros' mailbox was detonated as a precaution, and no one was injured. Soros, a business investor and Holocaust survivor, was reportedly not at home at the time, and he declined to comment. 
  
 One of his sons, Alexander, wrote in an opinion piece for The New York Times that before Trump was elected, the hate directed at his father "was largely confined to the extremist fringes, among white supremacists and nationalists who sought to undermine the very foundations of democracy." 
  
 "But with Donald Trump's presidential campaign things got worse," he wrote. "A genie was let out of the bottle, which may take generations to put back in." 
  
 One of the suspicious packages. Addresses have been removed to protect privacy. FBI 
  
 Jonathan Dienst, Tom Winter, Corky Siemaszko and Minyvonne Burke reported from New York. Alex Johnson and Andrew Blankstein reported from Los Angeles. Pete Williams reported from Washington. ||||| Cesar Altieri Sayoc, the mail bomb suspect arrested Friday, has struggled for years with “a lack of comprehension of reality,” his former lawyer told CNN. 
  
 Attorney Ronald S. Lowy said Sayoc’s mother and sisters have urged him to seek medical treatment, but he has refused. 
  
 “He thinks there’s nothing wrong with him,” Lowy said shortly after meeting with the suspect’s family. 
  
 Sayoc has been estranged from the family for the past several years, Lowy said, and his mother “can’t understand his (Sayoc's) behavior or views." 
  
 Though FBI searched the mother’s home on Friday, Lowy predicted it would be “a waste of time” since Sayoc hadn’t visited the residence for at least three years. 
  
 Lowy said the closest he came to getting treatment for Sayoc was in 2004 during a drug case that involved steroids. He said he negotiated with prosecutors to have it charged as a narcotics case so his client could get court mandated-treatment. 
  
 It was not immediately clear whether he actually received such treatment. 
  
 Lowy, who said he now represents Sayoc’s mother and two sisters, said they are struggling to come to terms with the allegations. 
  
 “It’s a very emotional time for them,” he said. ||||| A suspected mail bomb that arrived at a district office of Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz on Wednesday scrambled law enforcement, including the FBI, to the Sunrise location as authorities investigated four suspected explosive devices sent to the Obamas, the Clintons, liberal billionaire George Soros and CNN’s office in New York. 
  
 But Wasserman Schultz’s package differed in this regard: It only got there because the address to which it was originally sent was incorrect. It had been sent to the office of former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. So it was delivered to the congresswoman’s Sunrise office, which was listed as the return address. 
  
 The bomb scare was one of five involving “potentially destructive devices” sent across the country to Democratic standard bearers and a news outlet, according to the FBI, raising tensions throughout the nation. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Later Wednesday, police were investigating a piece of mail addressed to Wasserman Schultz at her district office in Aventura City Hall. The building was evacuated out of an abundance of caution, the congresswoman said. 
  
 Be the first to know. No one covers what is happening in our community better than we do. And with a digital subscription, you'll never miss a local story. SIGN ME UP! 
  
 All five packages — which were mailed in manila envelopes, stuffed in bubble wrap and stamped six times — listed Wasserman Schultz’s Sunrise office as the return address, the FBI said. 
  
 The packages were sent to the Manhattan offices of CNN, the Washington, D.C., home of former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama, the New York home of former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and to the New York home of Democratic megadonor and philanthropist Soros. 
  
 The New York Times reported that the device found inside Soros’ mailbox was “constructed from a length of pipe about six inches long filled with explosive powder” and that it was detonated by bomb squad technicians. 
  
 The newspaper also reported that the device mailed to Soros was similar to those sent to the Obamas, Clintons and to CNN. Each package was affixed with computer-printed address labels and six “Forever” stamps and had a return address of “DEBBIE WASSERMAN SHULTZ,” misspelling the congresswoman’s name. 
  
 The FBI said the explosive devices will be taken to their Quantico, Virginia, headquarters to be examined. There have been no reports of injuries. The only reported detonation was carried out by law enforcement. Sunrise Police said the package sent to Wasserman Schultz’s office was turned over to the FBI after being “rendered” safe. 
  
 Two of the suspicious packages that used the return address for the Sunrise office of U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. 
  
 “This investigation is of the highest priority for the FBI. We have committed the full strength of the FBI’s resources and, together with our partners on our Joint Terrorism Task Forces, we will continue to work to identify and arrest whoever is responsible for sending these packages,” said FBI Director Christopher Wray. “We ask anyone who may have information to contact the FBI. Do not hesitate to call; no piece of information is too small to help us in this investigation.” 
  
 Wasserman Schultz said she was “deeply disturbed” by the use of her name on suspect packages. 
  
 “We will not be intimidated by this attempted act of violence,” she said. “This appalling attack on our democracy must be vigorously prosecuted.” 
  
 The congresswoman said she has been in close contact with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies that are investigating the package found at her Sunrise office. She urged anyone with useful tips to contact the FBI at 1-800-CALL-FBI. 
  
 “Today, my staff and I will hug each other and our loved ones tightly, and tomorrow get back to work serving the people I was elected to represent,” she said. 
  
 The Sunrise office building where Wasserman Schultz has her office was evacuated just before 10:30 a.m., and explosives technicians with the Broward Sheriff’s Office, the Sunrise Police Department and the FBI were at the scene. 
  
 Federal investigators from the FBI-led Joint Terrorism Task Force in South Florida, New York and Washington, D.C., on Wednesday began looking into any similarities in the potentially explosive devices. They were also trying to track where the packages came from and gather forensic evidence and DNA. 
  
 “Each device is unique to that bomb-maker,” said one federal official not authorized to speak about the investigation. “[But] when someone does something like this, it’s usually one person.” 
  
 Sunrise Police Officer Chris Piper said the FBI and the U.S. Postal Service were taking the lead in determining if the package sent to Sunrise contained explosives. 
  
 “They are taking certain protocols to make sure that the package is safe for delivery,” he said. “The FBI will be taking the package and assuming the role, taking it to the laboratory.” 
  
  
  
  
  
 The package sent to CNN, which also contained an envelope with white powder, was addressed to former CIA Director John Brennan, an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump, who revoked his security clearance earlier this year. CNN published a photo of the manila envelope it received containing the explosive device. Whoever sent the envelope misspelled both Brennan’s and Wasserman Schultz’s names, and the congresswoman’s address. CNN reported the package was sent by courier. 
  
  
  
  
  
 A similar package, intended for California Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters, was intercepted at a congressional mail screening facility in Maryland, ABC News reported. 
  
 “What we saw here today was an effort to terrorize,” New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio said during a news conference. This clearly is an act of terror attempting to undermine our free press and leaders of this country through acts of violence.” 
  
 Other congressional offices in South Florida were on alert but as of Wednesday evening none had reported receiving suspicious packages. 
  
 “This kind of targeted hate and violence has no place in our country and will not be tolerated,” said Florida Democratic Party Chair Terrie Rizzo. “This isn’t about politics, this is about national security and our number one concern is the safety of Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz and first responders called to these scenes. Unfortunately, we have seen some candidates for office use highly divisive and toxic rhetoric during this cycle. Today’s greatly disturbing events are a reminder that everyone needs to tone it down in the last two weeks and focus on the issues. That’s the type of campaign Floridians deserve.” 
  
 President Donald Trump addressed the threats Wednesday during a White House gathering on the opioid crisis. Trump called for the nation to “come together” and “unify.” 
  
  
  
  
  
 He said he was getting steady updates and that the “full weight of the government” is being deployed to find the perpetrator. He called the sending of the bombs “egregious conduct.” 
  
 “The safety of the American people is my highest and absolute priority,” said Trump. “We have to unify. We have to come together.... Acts or threats of political violence of this kind have no place in the United States of America.” 
  
 Wasserman Schultz scrapped a planned appearance with Clinton at a fundraiser for congressional candidate Donna Shalala in Coral Gables Wednesday. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Police blocked off streets leading to U.S. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s office Wednesday after a suspicious package was found. Jimena Tavel jtavel@miamiherald.com 
  
 Clinton addressed the scare during the fundraiser and thanked the Secret Service for intercepting the explosive sent to her home in Chappaqua, New York. 
  
 “Many of you and others across our country have asked about me and my family and I’m very grateful for that,” she said. “We are fine thanks to the men and women of the Secret Service who intercepted the package addressed to us long before it made its way to our home.” 
  
 She continued: “Every day we’re grateful for their service and commitment and obviously never more than today. But it is a troubling time isn’t it? It’s a time of deep divisions and we have to do everything we can to bring our country together.” 
  
 Herald staff writers David Smiley, Jay Weaver, Jimena Tavel, and McClatchy Washington Bureau reporter Alex Daugherty contributed to this story. |||||