
  
  
  
 CLEVELAND, Ohio – A federal grand jury today returned an indictment of a Cuyahoga Falls man, charging him with attempting to buy a child. 
  
 Alliance police officers arrested Robert W. Thomas Jr., 37, last month as he tried to pay $400 for a 10-year-old girl he intended to keep at his home as a sex slave, according to court documents. 
  
 Police said Thomas posted an advertisement on an online site seeking to arrange a “marriage” with a young girl. “The younger the better, something in the 5-8 year-old range would be good,” Thomas wrote, according to an FBI affidavit. “I want a young wife that I can train…” Thomas allegedly informed the detective. 
  
 The three-count indictment also charges Thomas with receiving and distributing child pornography. 
  
 Thomas is being held in federal custody on $2 million bond. 
  
  
  
  ||||| ALLIANCE, Ohio - An Ohio man accused of trying to buy a 10-year-old girl Saturday has been arrested. 
  
 Robert W. Thomas Jr., 36, of Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio posted on a website that he was looking for anyone willing to arrange a “marriage” between him and their daughter. 
  
 An officer from Alliance, Ohio who works with the Ohio Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force saw the posting and responded to Thomas. 
  
 According to a press release, Thomas requested that the child be between the ages of 5 to 8, and that he wished to keep the child permanently and “train her to please him.” 
  
 The Task Force officer arranged a meeting with Thomas, where the release states Thomas was going to pay $400 for a 10-year-old girl. Instead of making a purchase, Thomas was arrested. 
  
 Alliance Police said that a search warrant was obtained for Thomas’ Cuyahoga Falls home where a computer, electronic storage devices, sexual paraphernalia, videos and firearms were seized. One of the firearms had a grenade launcher, police said. 
  
 Thomas is charged with trafficking in persons, attempted kidnapping, attempted rape, and possessing criminal tools. He is being held in Stark County Jail on $2 million bond, and will be arraigned Monday. 
  
 Alliance police were assisted in this investigation by the Canton office of FBI, and by the Cuyahoga Falls Police Department. ||||| AKRON, Ohio — A federal affidavit reveals disturbing new insight into the intentions of a Cuyahoga Falls man accused of trying to buy a 10-year-old girl for $400. 
  
 Robert W. Thomas Jr. appeared before a federal magistrate in Akron on Wednesday to face new charges. 
  
 He was arrested by Alliance police Saturday following a six-day investigation that started with an online ad. Investigators said the ad was placed by Thomas and asked for parents who would arrange a marriage between himself and their daughter. 
  
 An undercover detective from Alliance responded to the advertisement, and according to the federal affidavit, was told by Thomas “the younger the better, something in the 5-8 range would be good.” 
  
 The document reveals that Thomas requested a “ball park figure on costs” and later told detectives “I want a young wife that I can train.” 
  
 According to the affidavit, undercover officers told Thomas they could provide a “slightly broke in 10-year-old girl.” 
  
 FBI agents were involved in the investigation soon after it began and were there when Thomas was arrested. 
  
 Special Agent Vicki Anderson said the details fit a federal statute under which Thomas is now charged. 
  
 “If you are willing to sell a child that you have custody over and then there are certain specifications in that, or, if you are willing to purchase a child and then one of the specifications in that statute indicates that he was willing to purchase this child, what he thought to be a child, and that he was going to use that child for sexual purposes,” said Anderson. 
  
 The federal affidavit notes that after his arrest Thomas admitted to detectives that he received child pornography over the internet and had saved it to his home computer. 
  
 The document also notes that Thomas told investigators that he used his cell phone to send the messages to the undercover officers. 
  
 “The fact that there is a forum out there to put such a posting, I mean to put a posting that says you want to purchase a child, is anyone out there willing to sell their child to marry this man? And initially he had indicated that he wanted to purchase … between a five- and an eight-year-old and he settled for a ten-year-old, that’s … disturbing doesn’t even do that justice,” said Anderson. 
  
 The seven-page federal affidavit concludes with details of what Thomas allegedly told authorities about his intentions involving a young girl. 
  
 Investigators said he described how he intended to introduce sexual activity, grooming the child by starting with hugging and kissing on the cheeks and slowly escalating. 
  
 The document alleges that Thomas admitted he also planned on taking suggestive photos of the girl. 
  
 Thomas remained in federal custody on Wednesday. He was appointed an attorney. 
  
 His case is expected to go before a federal grand jury. 
  
 Federal Magistrate Kathleen Burke advised him if he is convicted of the existing charge, he faced a minimum sentence of 30 years in prison and a maximum of life behind bars. 
  
 For extended coverage on this story, click here. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. |||||