Dr. Brian Fennerty cherishes every memory of his son, an Army sergeant who died in Iraq. 
  
 But recently, the Oregon physician has been forced to endure the heartbreak of a fraudulent fundraising campaign that has included the posting of his son’s photo on a Pensacola website. 
  
 “Think of all the things someone could scam, and this is pretty low,” Fennerty, professor of gastroenterology at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland, said after learning of the fraud from the News Journal. “I want this exposed. I just wish there was a way to keep this sort of thing from happening again.” 
  
 As previously reported, an ad on Craigslist Pensacola that was posted in May — and subsequently posted on another site, www.indiegogo.com — solicits money to help with the recovery expenses of a purportedly wounded combat veteran named Chris Fennery. 
  
 However, the photo that appears on the two websites is actually that of Dr. Fennerty’s similarly named son, Sean Patrick Fennerty. It appeared with his obituary in an Oregon newspaper. 
  
 The plea for funds purports to be from Tiffany Fennery, the twin sister to a brother, Chris, whom she claims lost his legs and his left arm after stepping on an improvised explosive device on Mother’s Day. The solicitation does not say where the explosion supposedly occurred. 
  
 The Internet plea described the fictional Sgt. Fennery’s combat survival and subsequent needs in heartrending terms: “Please keep him in your prayers.” 
  
 While the Internet is known for postings that lack accountability, it can also help shrink the world in a way that corrects misconceptions. 
  
 After the News Journal found that the supposedly wounded veteran was known to neither the Pentagon nor the hospital where the fraudulent ad said he was recovering, the newspaper asked via pnj.com for readers’ help to discover his identity. 
  
 Within 48 hours, a veteran who had served with Sgt. Fennerty contacted a reporter. He explained that the man in the Craigslist photo was really named Fennerty, had died in Iraq in 2007 and was from Oregon. ||||| (Image Credit: KATU/ABC News) 
  
 An Oregon father was angered to find an image of his son, a fallen soldier, had been posted on Craigslist as part of a scam to collect money for a fictitious wounded soldier. 
  
 "It's disheartening. This just seems to be really low to take someone's reputation and memory and tarnish it to make money," said Dr. Brian Fennerty. 
  
 His son, Sgt. Sean Fennerty, died in Iraq in 2007 after being hit by a roadside bomb. A photo from Fennerty's obituary was lifted and used in the posting on the Pensacola, Fla., Craigslist website. 
  
 The ad, which Fennerty said was removed Monday, claimed the man pictured smiling in a helmet and fatigues was Chris Fennery, a soldier who had lost both legs and needed help paying his medical bills. A link was provided to a donation site and readers were encouraged to share the posting on Facebook and Twitter. 
  
 Fennerty said he was made aware of the photograph after a local newspaper investigated the scam and someone who knew his son recognized the picture. 
  
 He said he contacted Craigslist but received no response or apology. 
  
 "It sure took a curiously long time [to take it down]," Fennerty said. "I want [Sean] remembered for what he did, which was honorable and patriotic. Now his memory is somewhat attached to a financial scam and there's an element of anger." 
  
 Craigslist confirmed to ABCNews.com the post had been removed. 
  
 No arrests have been made and it could not be immediately determined how much money was collected by the fraudulent site. |||||