FRESNO, Calif. (KMPH) Fresno Police said they arrested a known gang member after pulling him over in southeast Fresno and searching his house Monday. 
  
 Police said they pulled 33-year-old Khamprasong Thammavong in the area of E. Kaviland Ave. and S. Holloway Ave. Thammavong was on probation as part of the AB-109 early release program. Police said that made him and his home subject to a search. 
  
 At Thammavong's house, police said they found pictures of him posing with guns. They said they also found a semi-automatic rifle, a semi-automatic handgun, law enforcement-type tactical gear, 38 marijuana plants and drug paraphernalia. 
  
 Police said Thammavong did not have a license to grow marijuana. He was arrested on several felonies related the guns and marijuana. 
  
 Follow us on Twitter: ||||| FRESNO, CA (WCMH) — A documented gang member is back in jail after a traffic stop led to a firearms, tactical gear and drugs being found in his house. 
  
 Police in Fresno, California made the discovery after pulling over Khamprasong Thammavong, 33, for a minor traffic violation. The officer quickly called for backup after learning that Thammavong was a documented member of the Laos Bloods and was out of jail on probation. 
  
 Officers then went to the address of his home, saying it was open to search and seizure, and found a semi-automatic rifle and a semi-automatic handgun. Neither of the firearms were registered to Thammavong. 
  
 Additionally, police recovered tactical gear, a marijuana grow operation consisting of 38 plants and narcotics paraphernalia. 
  
 Thammavong now faces multiple felony charges. He’s being held in the Fresno County Jail. ||||| Man with untold number of face tattoos arrested on gun, drug charges 
  
 Khamprasong Thammavong, 33, after his arrested on several felony charges on March 7, 2016. Khamprasong Thammavong, 33, after his arrested on several felony charges on March 7, 2016. Photo: Fresno Police Department 
  
 Scroll through the gallery to see some of Texas' craziest and funniest mugshots. Scroll through the gallery to see some of Texas' craziest and funniest mugshots. Photo: File 
  
 Luciano Gutierrez, 66, was booked into Bell County Jail on Feb. 26, 2015, on his ninth driving while intoxicated charge while wearing a shirt that read, "Warning: I Do Dumb Things." Luciano Gutierrez, 66, was booked into Bell County Jail on Feb. 26, 2015, on his ninth driving while intoxicated charge while wearing a shirt that read, "Warning: I Do Dumb Things." 
  
 Dillon Alexander Steele, 30, faces up to 10 years in federal prison after entering a guilty plea in a federal court in Amarillo on a charge of mailing threatening communication. Dillon Alexander Steele, 30, faces up to 10 years in federal prison after entering a guilty plea in a federal court in Amarillo on a charge of mailing threatening communication. 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-5', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 5', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Dallas woman Nancy Suzanne Duarte, whose smiling mugshot made the rounds on social media this week, tried to burn down a yoga studio Saturday in order to "get rid of the devil's temple" that brought her "so much pain and suffering." Duarte, 41, told CBS DFW she smiled in the mugshot in attempt to let go of anger associated with years-long disputes with two men affiliated with American Power Yoga who she claims have routinely harassed her. less Dallas woman Nancy Suzanne Duarte, whose smiling mugshot made the rounds on social media this week, tried to burn down a yoga studio Saturday in order to "get rid of the devil's temple" that brought her "so ... more Photo: Dallas County Jail 
  
 Lubbock police arrested Mara Paradox, 29, on Sunday for possession of marijuana. Lubbock police arrested Mara Paradox, 29, on Sunday for possession of marijuana. Photo: Lubbock County Sheriff's Office 
  
 Christopher J. Shirley, 20, of Conroe, had trouble standing for a booking photo, due to impairment, Feb. 12, 2015, authorities said. (Montgomery County Pct. 4 Constable's Office) Christopher J. Shirley, 20, of Conroe, had trouble standing for a booking photo, due to impairment, Feb. 12, 2015, authorities said. (Montgomery County Pct. 4 Constable's Office) 
  
  
  
 Charge: Driving while intoxicated — with child passenger under 15 years old Charge Date: Jan. 18, 2015 Marcus A. Cesareo 
  
 Charge: Driving while intoxicated — with child passenger under 15 years old Charge Date: Jan. 18, 2015 Marcus A. Cesareo Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-10', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 10', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Christopher Botello, charged with intoxication assault Christopher Botello, charged with intoxication assault Photo: Bexar County Jail 
  
 This undated booking photo provided by the Houston Police Department on Saturday, July 20, 2013 shows Walter Renard Jones. Jones was charged with two counts of injury to the elderly on Saturday, July 20, in connection with the discovery of four malnourished men being held against their will in a dungeon-like Houston home. (AP Photo/Houston Police Department) less This undated booking photo provided by the Houston Police Department on Saturday, July 20, 2013 shows Walter Renard Jones. Jones was charged with two counts of injury to the elderly on Saturday, July 20, in ... more Photo: Uncredited, Associated Press 
  
 Louisiana law enforcement officials in conjunction with federal agents with the Drug Enforcement Agency arrested a 26-year-old Texas man for allegedly trying to smuggle 15 pounds of heroin hidden in fire extinguishers. Juan Jesus Vasquez of McAllen was charged with possession with intent to distribute Schedule I heroin and was booked into East Baton Rouge Parish Prison on Tuesday, according to a press release from the East Baton Rouge Sheriff's Office. less Louisiana law enforcement officials in conjunction with federal agents with the Drug Enforcement Agency arrested a 26-year-old Texas man for allegedly trying to smuggle 15 pounds of heroin hidden in fire ... more Photo: East Baton Rouge Parish Prison 
  
 Cesar Augusto Perez was charged with impersonating a public servant on May 15, 2013. Cesar Augusto Perez was charged with impersonating a public servant on May 15, 2013. Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-15', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 15', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Gov. Rick Perry shows everybody how to take a mug shot. He turned himself in to authorities at the Blackwell-Thurman Criminal Justice Center in August. Perry was indicted on felony charges of abuse of power and coercion of a public servant. less Gov. Rick Perry shows everybody how to take a mug shot. He turned himself in to authorities at the Blackwell-Thurman Criminal Justice Center in August. Perry was indicted on felony charges of abuse of power and ... more Photo: Handout /Getty Images 
  
 Who is Rosemary Lehmberg? Lehmberg is the Travis County District Attorney. In 2013, she was arrested for drunk driving. After her arrest, a complaint was filed and Perry threatened to veto funding if she did not resign from the DA position. Lehmberg plead guilty to driving while intoxicated and served 45 days in prison, but kept her job. less Who is Rosemary Lehmberg? Lehmberg is the Travis County District Attorney. In 2013, she was arrested for drunk driving. After her arrest, a complaint was filed and Perry threatened to veto funding if she did ... more Photo: Uncredited, ASSOCIATED PRESS 
  
 June 2012 - Before Johnny Manziel became 'Johnny Football' he had a mugshot. He had a misdemeanor charge for getting in an altercation at a bar and supplying a fake identity. He pleaded guilty to the charge in July of 2013. less June 2012 - Before Johnny Manziel became 'Johnny Football' he had a mugshot. He had a misdemeanor charge for getting in an altercation at a bar and supplying a fake identity. He pleaded guilty to the charge in ... more Photo: Via Thesmokinggun.com 
  
 State District Judge Gisela Triana, 48, has been charged with driving while intoxicated after attending an Austin taping of "Jimmy Kimmel Live" on Friday. Triana allegedly had an empty bottle of Mike's Hard Lemonade sitting in the center console of her Chevrolet Suburban when police pulled her over Friday, according to an arrest affidavit. less State District Judge Gisela Triana, 48, has been charged with driving while intoxicated after attending an Austin taping of "Jimmy Kimmel Live" on Friday. Triana allegedly had an empty bottle of Mike's Hard ... more Photo: Austin Police Department 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-20', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 20', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 This photo provided by the Grayson County, Texas, Sheriff’s Office shows Country singer Randy Travis who has been charged with driving while intoxicated. Authorities say Travis was being jailed without bond Wednesday, Aug. 8, 2012, pending an appearance before a judge in Sherman, Texas, about 60 miles north of Dallas. (AP Photo/Grayson County Sheriff's Office) less This photo provided by the Grayson County, Texas, Sheriff’s Office shows Country singer Randy Travis who has been charged with driving while intoxicated. Authorities say Travis was being jailed without bond ... more Photo: Associated Press 
  
 This booking photo provided by the El Paso Police Department shows Cameron Thomaz, better known as, Wiz Khalifa in El Paso, Texas, Sunday May 25, 2014. The 26-year-old rapper was charged with possession of under two ounces of marijuana, booked and released on a $300 bond after he was searched by Transportation Security Administration when he tried to board a plane without an identification document at the El Paso International Airport. (AP Photo/El Paso Police Department) less This booking photo provided by the El Paso Police Department shows Cameron Thomaz, better known as, Wiz Khalifa in El Paso, Texas, Sunday May 25, 2014. The 26-year-old rapper was charged with possession of ... more Photo: Associated Press 
  
 Alvin Robertson, former San Antonio Spurs guard, shown in an Nov. 10, 2014, booking photo. Alvin Robertson, former San Antonio Spurs guard, shown in an Nov. 10, 2014, booking photo. Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 David Bruce Henry, 48, was sentenced to life in prison Tuesday on his seventh drunken driving conviction. Henry has also been accused of indecency with a child for an alleged incident involving a teenage girl in October 2012. Pictured, Henry in Oct. 5, 1996. less David Bruce Henry, 48, was sentenced to life in prison Tuesday on his seventh drunken driving conviction. Henry has also been accused of indecency with a child for an alleged incident involving a teenage girl ... more Photo: McLennan County Sheriff's Office 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-25', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 25', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Terry Goodwin was booked into the Harris County Jail on a marijuana charge while on probation. Authorities contend he was locked in a filthy cell, which had bug-infested food wrappings and a feces-clogged toilet, among other issues. (Harris County Sheriff's Office) less Terry Goodwin was booked into the Harris County Jail on a marijuana charge while on probation. Authorities contend he was locked in a filthy cell, which had bug-infested food wrappings and a feces-clogged ... more 
  
  
  
  
  
 Raul Macias Vasquez was charged with driving while intoxicated — third or more on March 28, 2015. Note the Spurs tattoo under his right eye — which could be a sign Raul Macias Vasquez was charged with driving while intoxicated — third or more on March 28, 2015. Note the Spurs tattoo under his right eye — which could be a sign Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 Andrew Stephen Martin, a member of the white supremacist gang Aryan Brotherhood, was charged Tuesday with felony theft after stealing $6 worth of Hot Pockets in December from a Walmart in Austin. Andrew Stephen Martin, a member of the white supremacist gang Aryan Brotherhood, was charged Tuesday with felony theft after stealing $6 worth of Hot Pockets in December from a Walmart in Austin. Photo: Austin Police Department 
  
 New Braunfels resident Valdemar Rios Benavidez, 50, faces two counts of forging currency after using two fake $20 bills at a McDonalds. New Braunfels resident Valdemar Rios Benavidez, 50, faces two counts of forging currency after using two fake $20 bills at a McDonalds. Photo: Courtesy Of Comal County Jail 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-30', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 30', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Jose Guadalupe Ortiz Jr. was charged with intoxication manslaughter on Jan. 17, 2015. Jose Guadalupe Ortiz Jr. was charged with intoxication manslaughter on Jan. 17, 2015. Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 Gerard Michael Cortez was charged with driving while intoxicated — third or more on March 8, 2015. Gerard Michael Cortez was charged with driving while intoxicated — third or more on March 8, 2015. Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 Brian Lee Morales is wanted on felony gun and drug charges. Brian Lee Morales is wanted on felony gun and drug charges. 
  
  
  
 Name: Raymond Shattuck DOB: 12-12-1984 Date of Photo: 10-22-2014 less Officers with the McLennan County Sheriff's Office arrested 20 people charged with online solicitation of a minor over the course of a two week investigation. 
  
 Name: Raymond Shattuck DOB: 12-12-1984 Date of Photo: ... more Officers with the McLennan County Sheriff's Office arrested 20 people charged with online solicitation of a minor over the course of a two week investigation. Photo: Fechter, Joshua I, McLennan County Sheriff's Office 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-35', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 35', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
 Jason Dennis, charged with prostitution under 18 Jason Dennis, charged with prostitution under 18 Photo: McLennan County Sheriff's Office 
  
 Rudy Carrillo, 26, was arrested Monday on a charge of burglary. Rudy Carrillo, 26, was arrested Monday on a charge of burglary. Photo: Bexar County Sheriff's Office 
  
 window._taboola = window._taboola || []; _taboola.push({ mode: 'thumbnails-c', container: 'taboola-interstitial-gallery-thumbnails-38', placement: 'Interstitial Gallery Thumbnails 38', target_type: 'mix' }); _taboola.push({flush: true}); 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Photo: Fresno Police Department Image 1 of / 38 Caption Close Man with untold number of face tattoos arrested on gun, drug charges 1 / 38 Back to Gallery 
  
 There are probably a lot of great people out there with face tattoos. This man, according to California police, does not help their reputation. 
  
 Khamprasong Thammavong, 33, was pulled over by police Monday while on probation. The suspect’s probation “made him and his home subject to a search” without needing a warrant, according to local Fox affiliate KMPH. 
  
 READ THIS: East Texas homeowner beats up alleged would-be burglar, police say 
  
 Inside Thammavong’s home, police said they found a semi-automatic rifle, a handgun, law enforcement-type tactical gear, drugs and drug paraphernalia. There were also a number of photos of Thammavong posing with guns, Fresno police said. He was arrested on several felony charges. 
  
 Local news radio KMJNow.com said police identified the suspect as a “documented Laos Blood gang member.” 
  
 His tattoos included "GUCCI" across his forehead, "SPEAK NO EVIL" above his lips and the word "EYE" written above both of his eyes. 
  
 See the gallery above for the weirdest mugshots. |||||