Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton Hillary Diane Rodham ClintonThe Hill's 12:30 Report Trump marks second year of Mueller 'witch hunt' The Hill's Morning Report: Mueller probe hits one-year mark MORE has won New Hampshire and its four Electoral College votes, nearly a week after Donald Trump Donald John TrumpMan opens fire at Trump’s Miami golf resort Trump yuks it up to deflect Senate critics Primary win gives resurgent left a new shot of adrenaline MORE was declared the winner of the presidential election. 
  
 Clinton defeated Trump by roughly 2,700 votes in New Hampshire, The Associated Press announced Monday. 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 The additional Electoral College votes will not make a difference for Clinton's now-defunct campaign — she is still nearly 40 votes short of the needed 270. 
  
 The AP found that Clinton’s margin of success was less than 1 percent of the 732,000 ballots cast in New Hampshire, what was expected to be a crucial battleground state. 
  
 Trump's team declined to request a recount. 
  
 Trump’s edge in the Electoral College votes now stands at 290 to Clinton’s 232. 
  
 Clinton campaigned in New Hampshire two days before the election, and President Obama also visited the state on her behalf in the final day of the campaign. 
  
 Trump journeyed to New Hampshire twice in the 2016 race’s five final days. 
  
 The results in Michigan still remain undecided, but the Great Lake State’s 16 electoral votes would not change the White House race’s outcome. 
  
 Trump stunned the world last week when he soundly defeated Clinton, despite trailing her in national polling averages that morning and running an unconventional campaign against a political veteran. 
  
 Clinton formally conceded the 2016 race the following day, and Trump has since met with President Obama and leaders in Congress in Washington and begun the transition effort. 
  
 Clinton is still leading the real estate tycoon by a narrow margin in the popular vote. ||||| Republican and president-elect Donald Trump's loss in the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton continues to grow nearly a week after he won the Electoral College vote, according to the latest tallies. Clinton now holds a 668,483 lead over the next president, with 61,039,676 votes to Trump’s 60,371,193, according to CNN. 
  
 Clinton has seen her lead steadily climb in the last six days since shockingly losing the Electoral College to Trump 290-232. On Friday, Clinton’s lead was a little more than 395,000 votes. The latest vote count shows she is beating Democrat Al Gore's grand total when he won the popular vote to George W. Bush in 2000, but ultimately lost the Electoral College vote. 
  
 As states still gather their final tallies, Clinton’s lead figures to grow even more. It’s possible Clinton will wind up with 2 million more votes than Trump, a 1.5 percentage point advantage, the New York Times reported. 
  
 Trump, speaking with his wife and children on “60 Minutes” Sunday night, chatted with interviewer Lesley Stahl about tweets he wrote during the campaign that claimed the electoral college is a “disaster for democracy” and that the election process is “rigged.” Trump hinted that he may understand the outcry from Clinton supporters about making the popular vote the primary factor in the presidential election. 
  
 “I hated-- well, you know, I’m not going to change my mind just because I won,” Trump said. “But I would rather see it where you went with simple votes. You know, you get 100 million votes and somebody else gets 90 million votes and you win." 
  
 Millions of voters, including pop singers Lady Gaga, Pink and Sia want Republican electors to honor the popular vote and deliver the White House to Clinton. Critics claim the Electoral College favors states that once owned slaves. 
  
 "Most of us are taught that the Electoral College was designed to dilute democracy by forcing voters to choose independent electors, who then chose a president. That is true, but it’s only part of the story. The system was also designed to accommodate and preserve slavery, the ultimate tool of white supremacy—and later served to delay universal women’s suffrage," Slate wrote. ||||| CONCORD, N.H. (AP) — Democrat Hillary Clinton has won New Hampshire's four Electoral College votes. 
  
 Republican Donald Trump's campaign had until 5 p.m. Monday to seek a recount. His campaign did not do so, officially sealing Clinton's victory in the state. 
  
 Clinton won the small state by roughly 2,700 votes. That's less than 1 percent of the 732,000 ballots cast. 
  
 New Hampshire drew intense attention from the two campaigns in the final days before the election. 
  
 Clinton campaigned in the state two days before the election and sent President Barack Obama on her behalf the next day. Trump visited the state twice in the final five days. 
  
 Trump's edge in the Electoral College now stands at 290 to 232, with only Michigan still to be called by The Associated Press. |||||