More than 100 protesters staged a sit-in at a gas station in St. Louis near the site of a police-involved shooting last week, prompting riot police to deploy tear gas and make arrests. 
  
 More than 100 protesters staged a sit-in at a gas station in St. Louis near the site of a police-involved shooting last week, prompting riot police to deploy tear gas and make arrests. 
  
 Justice Department investigators have all but concluded they do not have a strong enough case to bring civil rights charges against Darren Wilson, the white police officer who shot and killed an unarmed black teenager in Ferguson, Mo., law enforcement officials said. 
  
 When racial tension boiled over in Ferguson after the Aug. 9 shooting, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. traveled to the St. Louis suburb to meet with city leaders and protest organizers in an effort to bring calm. He assured them that the federal government would open a civil rights investigation into the fatal shooting of Michael Brown. But that investigation now seems unlikely to result in any charges. 
  
 “The evidence at this point does not support civil rights charges against Officer Wilson,” said one person briefed on the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case. 
  
 Justice Department officials are loath to acknowledge publicly that their case cannot now meet the high legal threshold for a successful civil rights prosecution. The timing is sensitive: Tensions are high in greater St. Louis as people await the results of a grand jury’s review of the case. 
  
 Many supporters of Brown say they are already convinced there will be no state-level indictment of the officer. Federal officials have wanted to show that they are conducting a full and fair review of the case. 
  
 Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson and Missouri State Highway Patrol Capt. Ronald Johnson held news conferences Friday to discuss the release of robbery surveillance video, reveal the identity of the officer who shot Michael Brown and more. (Nicki DeMarco/The Washington Post) 
  
 Justice spokesman Brian Fallon said the case remains open and any discussion of its results is premature. “This is an irresponsible report by The Washington Post that is based on idle speculation,” Fallon said in a statement. 
  
 Other law enforcement officials interviewed by The Post said it was not too soon to say how the investigation would end. “The evidence we have makes federal civil rights charges unlikely,” one said. 
  
 A lawyer for Brown’s family, Benjamin L. Crump, said he would not comment “on something that is not official.” 
  
 James P. Towey Jr., Wilson’s attorney, did not return calls or e-mails seeking comment. 
  
 The Justice Department is continuing its broad investigation of the policing practices of the Ferguson Police Department, which could result in wholesale reforms and reorganization. The Justice Department on Friday announced an agreement with the city of Albuquerque intended to overhaul the way its police department uses force, the result of one such civil rights investigation. 
  
 At a forum this week organized by the Aspen Institute and the Atlantic magazine, Holder indicated that a similar overhaul could be called for in Ferguson. “It’s pretty clear that the need for wholesale change in that department is appropriate,” Holder said. 
  
 Federal law sets a high bar in bringing civil rights charges against a police officer because prosecutors must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the officer intended to violate someone’s constitutional rights. 
  
 Authorities faced a similar challenge in the investigation of George Zimmerman in the 2012 shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla. Under federal law for hate crimes, prosecutors have to show that someone has been victimized intentionally because of a racial or other bias. 
  
 Law enforcement officials have said privately that there is insufficient evidence to bring federal charges in that case, although the two-year probe technically remains open. 
  
 The investigation of the Brown shooting is being conducted by the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division under a federal statute that makes it a crime for a person with government authority — the legal term is “acting under color of any law” — to “willfully deprive a person of a right or privilege protected by the Constitution or laws of the United States.” 
  
 Sometimes the department is successful. In 2010, prosecutors won convictions of two New Orleans police officers for civil rights violations in connection with the killing of a man and the burning of his body during the disruption that followed Hurricane Katrina. The officers have appealed their convictions. 
  
 Holder and other officials have decried recent news reports about investigative findings in the Ferguson case that have revealed new but conflicting details about the three-minute encounter between Wilson and Brown. Some of those details potentially corroborate the officer’s account that the killing was an act of self-defense, and they could complicate a civil rights case against Wilson. 
  
 The St. Louis County autopsy report, published Oct. 21 by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, was interpreted by some forensic pathologists as indicating that Brown may have struggled for control of Wilson’s gun during their initial altercation, but they also said the evidence was inconclusive. 
  
 After two shots were fired inside Wilson’s patrol vehicle, the officer got out and Brown fled but later turned around as Wilson continued firing. Some pathologists said the report indicates — but not conclusively — that Brown’s hands were not over his head. Several witnesses said his arms were raised in surrender when the officer shot him again. 
  
 Rachel A. Harmon, a law professor at the University of Virginia and a former prosecutor in the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, said it is especially challenging to prove a civil rights case beyond a reasonable doubt. 
  
 “There is an extra burden in federal civil rights cases because the statute requires that the defendant acted ‘willfully,’ ” Harmon said. “It is not enough to prove that he used too much force. You have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he did so willfully.” 
  
 Harmon also said that if Wilson “genuinely believed he was acting in self-defense,” then his actions are not considered “willful,” meaning he did not intend to deprive Brown of his constitutional rights. 
  
 Brown was shot a total of nine times, including three times in the head, according to the county autopsy. 
  
 Dorian Johnson, the 22-year-old who was with Brown when the two encountered Wilson, has said the officer was the aggressor and did not act in self-defense. 
  
 David Klinger, a former Los Angeles police officer and now a professor of criminology at the University of Missouri at St. Louis, said enduring disputes over what happened are likely to raise reasonable doubt that would make a successful civil rights prosecution almost impossible. 
  
 “The autopsy report is devastating because it raises doubts about him standing still with his hands in the air in surrender,” said Klinger, who fatally shot a suspect in the line of duty when he was an officer. “If you have a halfway competent lawyer, the defense could raise reasonable doubt with this.” 
  
 Samuel Bagenstos, a former Justice Department principal deputy assistant attorney general for civil rights and now a law professor at the University of Michigan, said the obstacles prosecutors face in the Ferguson case are typical, as are the frustrations of Brown’s supporters. 
  
 It is common to have a situation “that looks like a constitutional violation and may well be an injustice,” Bagenstos said. “But sometimes the Justice Department does not have the ability to bring a civil rights case under the statutes it enforces.” ||||| ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — The U.S. Justice Department and New Mexico's largest city have reached an agreement to overhaul Albuquerque's police department amid several accusations of excessive force, agreeing to reforms that include new training and protocols for investigating officer shootings. 
  
 FILE- In this March 30, 2014, file photo, riot police launch tear gas toward activists in downtown Albuquerque, N.M., following a 10-hour protest. The U.S. Department of Justice and New Mexico's largest... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE- In this March 30, 2014 file photo, riot police stand guard near a crowd protesting police shootings in Albuquerque, N.M. The U.S. Department of Justice and New Mexico's largest city are expected... (Associated Press) 
  
 The deal announced Friday also orders the force to be independently monitored and calls for the changes to be in place within four years. 
  
 Damon Martinez, the U.S. attorney for the district of New Mexico, said at a news conference that the agreement represents a new chapter for Albuquerque and will "ensure effective policing and build community trust for our police officers." 
  
 City and federal officials have spent hundreds of hours discussing overhaul plans in the months after a Department of Justice report found in April that officers showed a pattern of using excessive force. 
  
 The police department serving a city of about 560,000 people has faced scrutiny for 41 police shootings — 27 of them fatal — since 2010. The fatal shooting of a homeless man in March sparked protests around the city after video footage appeared to show the man surrendering during a standoff. 
  
 Attorney General Eric Holder said the agreement will transform the culture and practices of the Albuquerque Police Department, "And I am confident that, with the cooperation of city leaders and brave law enforcement officials, we will take significant steps to restore trust with local citizens and build for Albuquerque's residents the stronger, safer, and more secure communities that all Americans deserve." 
  
 Albuquerque Mayor Richard Berry said the agreement sets a new national standard for police reform. The deal "will lead to better community outcomes through training, accountability and citizen input," he said. 
  
 An independent monitoring team will oversee how the changes are adopted, provide technical assistance and publicly report on the city's compliance, according to the Justice Department. 
  
 It also will have access to all documents, personnel, facilities and information related to the settlement agreement and will engage with officers and community members on an ongoing basis, federal officials said. 
  
 The Albuquerque City Council is scheduled to vote on the agreement next week. Later in November, the city of Albuquerque and Justice Department officers will file the settlement agreement in federal court for approval and entry as an order. 
  
 During the last five years, the Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division has opened more 20 investigations into police departments. Officials said the department had entered into 15 agreements with law enforcement agencies, including nine consent decrees similar to the one crafted with Albuquerque police. 
  
 The department has entered into consent decrees, for example, with the New Orleans Police Department, the Puerto Rico Police Department and the Seattle Police Department. 
  
 "This agreement comes at a time when there's much national attention to the use of deadly force by police officers and whether police officers are meaningfully accountable to the communities that they serve. Albuquerque is not alone in struggling with these very difficult issues," said Vanita Gupta, acting assistant U.S. attorney general. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writer Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Follow Russell Contreras at http://twitter.com/russcontreras ||||| Aaron P. Bernstein/Getty Images Members of the Ferguson Police Department wear body cameras during a rally Aug. 30, 2014, in Ferguson, Mo. Michael Brown, an 18-year-old unarmed teenager, was shot and killed by Officer Darren Wilson Aug. 9. 
  
 When I read in last Friday’s New York Times that some of the testimony in the investigation of Ferguson, Mo., police Officer Darren Wilson was leaked, I cringed and then uttered a few expletives because I knew something bad was coming soon. In my years of being a trial lawyer and legal analyst, I’ve seen this before. 
  
 I hope I’m wrong, but I have a feeling that prosecutors are getting ready to drop the hammer on us. They want us to be ready for what every tear-gassed, unlawfully arrested, shot at, beaten, harassed, billy-clubbed protester doesn’t want to hear: 
  
 Wilson probably won’t be charged in the killing of Michael Brown. 
  
 According to the Times, Wilson told investigators that he was “in fear for his life” after struggling with Brown two months ago in Ferguson, Mo. Further, according to sources, evidence in the case “did not support civil rights charges” against Wilson. The Times also pointed out that its account of Wilson’s version of events “did not come from the Ferguson Police Department or from officials whose activities are being investigated as part of the civil rights inquiry.” 
  
 None of which is a good sign for anyone who wants to see Wilson held accountable for Brown’s death. The first indicator of trouble came when the St. Louis County grand jury investigation into the case was extended to January. It’s the coldest month of the year, and it’s possible that this was timed for when protesters might not be out in full force—arguably the perfect time, from law enforcement’s point of view, not to charge Wilson. 
  
 It also looks as if this case was foiled from the beginning. County Prosecutor Robert McCulloch should have recused himself from the prosecution process because of his close relationship with law enforcement in St. Louis County, including Wilson. McCulloch, however, has refused to withdraw and has moved forward despite the multiple requests for an independent prosecutor who has no allegiance, loyalty, relationship, or real or perceived bias. 
  
 Unfortunately, by law, McCulloch isn’t required to recuse himself for a conflict of interest based on that relationship. But even if there is no plan or collusion to protect Wilson, the mere appearance of it will have haunting effects if Wilson is not charged. And if he isn’t charged, many in the public will consider this McCulloch’s fault—and, quite frankly, it will be. In this case, McCulloch is working, out of the public eye, to decide whether or not a colleague will be prosecuted for murder. Nor is he within earshot of legal professionals who could protect the rights of Brown and his family. 
  
 As in any grand jury case, the prosecution decides whom to call as witnesses, what evidence to present, which questions to ask and, most important, how questions are asked. Those factors all affect the process and what the grand jury does. 
  
 All along, McCulloch had the choice to charge Wilson by information, which means that Wilson would have been arrested and charged and would have faced a public preliminary hearing with the scrutiny of a judge, which the world could have listened to and observed. Now, two-and-a-half months after the shooting and with no public statements from Wilson or his lawyers, the Times leak has conveniently brought Wilson’s version of events to the forefront. In other words, someone is preparing us for the bad part. 
  
 According to available information, Brown’s blood was in the car, indicating that he was shot near the car during a physical altercation. That is not disputed. However, Brown was running away with his hands up to surrender while several feet away, according to several witnesses—of varying ethnic backgrounds. Then, according to witnesses, Wilson shot the unarmed Brown repeatedly. 
  
 The problem with that version of events, from a self-defense legal perspective, is that if a threat is going away from Wilson and surrendering, then that threat is neutralized, and deadly force should not be used. However, in this case, deadly force was used, and at least six shots hit the unarmed teenager’s body. 
  
 Wilson testified before the grand jury for approximately four hours. It’s rare, though, for a person who could face charges to testify before a grand jury unless he or she already knows what to say to secure a “no bill.” It looks as if Wilson’s extensive experience testifying before juries and grand juries was advantageous in his testimony. |||||