Both Adventure of a Lifetime and Hymn for the Weekend are up for the prize, which recognises the most-played song on radio, TV and online last year.
But they face stiff competition from Adele's When We Were Young - the category's only other nominee.
The winner will be revealed at a ceremony in London next month.
Nick Cave's devastating Skeleton Tree is among the three releases up for the best album prize.
Cave was in the process of writing the album when, in July 2015, his 15-year-old son died after accidentally falling from a cliff near the family's home in Brighton. The tragedy looms over the record, which received some of the best reviews of Cave's career.
Also up for best album are the retro-soul of Michael Kiwanuka's Love and Hate, and the futuristic funk of Laura Mvula's The Dreaming Room.
Kiwanuka and Mvula are also in the running for best song musically and lyrically - for the singles Black Man in a White World and Overcome respectively. They are up against rock band Mystery Jets for their track Telomere.
"It's a truly humbling feeling," said singer and guitarist Blaine Harrison. "I think the Ivors are particularly special for any songwriter because you're nominated by your peers."
Here is the full list of nominees:
Best song musically and lyrically
Best contemporary song
Most performed work
Best album
Best film score
Best television soundtrack
"This is one of those awards you never feel you're going to be nominated for," said London-born singer Dyo, whose dance hit Sexual is up for best contemporary song.
She put the song's success down to the lyrics.
"People get to shout 'sexual,'" she told the BBC. "It's one of those songs that children sing, even though they shouldn't."
"But I wasn't in a sexual mood when I wrote it. I was actually freezing cold in Sweden and I thought, 'I need to write something that's going to make me feel good right now, and make everyone else happy.'"
The Ivor Novellos are highly regarded within the music industry because they are voted for by songwriters and composers.
Now in their 62nd year, the awards have honoured the work of more than 750 songwriters and composers, including the Beatles, Kate Bush and Sir Elton John.
Last year's ceremony saw Adele named songwriter of the year, while Damon Albarn won the lifetime achievement award.
The recipients of all this year's prizes will be announced at the ceremony on 18 May.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.