More than 20 years after a New Mexico woman garnered headlines after she sued McDonald’s over a scalding cup of coffee, a 5-year-old girl has won a six-figure settlement in Buffalo federal court for a similar incident at a Thruway rest stop. 
  
 The family of the young girl sued the owners of a Denny’s restaurant in Angola in 2012, took the case to trial and recently agreed to a court-approved settlement of at least $500,000. 
  
 The girl, who was only 14 months old at the time, suffered first- and second-degree burns over her neck, chest and abdomen. 
  
 Her parents, Jose Adames and Sally Irizarry of Puerto Rico, sued the restaurant’s owners after their daughter grabbed a hot cup of coffee and spilled it on herself in 2010. They claim the waitress was negligent in placing the coffee within the infant’s reach. 
  
 “Sometime after the family is seated, a cup of coffee is placed on the table, which the infant was able to grab and dump on herself," the family said in court papers. 
  
 The case went to trial last month, but midway through, an insurance carrier for G.B. Restaurants, the company that owned the now-closed Denny’s along the Thruway, offered to pay $500,000 to the family. 
  
 The final settlement, approved by U.S. Magistrate Judge Hugh B. Scott, remains confidential but it is believed to be near the $500,000 previously disclosed in court papers. 
  
 Lawsuits over hot cups of coffee became fodder for the ongoing national debate over personal injury lawsuits when 79-year-old Stella Liebeck successfully sued McDonald’s in 1992. Liebeck’s Styrofoam cup of coffee spilled on her lap outside one of the chain’s restaurants in New Mexico, causing third-degree burns. 
  
 When she filed suit against the chain, she became a lightning rod of sorts. But her lawyers will tell you that, in the end, the facts proved McDonald’s was negligent. 
  
 They said the chain had a policy of serving its coffee at 180 degrees, a temperature hot enough to cause serious burns. They also say the company received more than 700 complaints from customers in what amounted to a clear red flag. 
  
 In some ways, the Buffalo case mirrored the suit in New Mexico. There were claims about the coffee being kept at overly hot temperatures, and there was testimony during the trial from medical personnel who worked on the infant. 
  
 The family also provided evidence that their daughter will require lifetime medical care at a cost of more than $340,000. 
  
 “They continue to worry about her health and welfare now and into the future,” the family’s lawyer said of the girl’s parents. 
  
 John W. McCandless, the Erie, Pa., lawyer who represented the infant’s family, and Robert W. Gallagher, who represented the restaurant owners, said they could not comment because of the confidential nature of the settlement. 
  
 email: pfairbanks@buffnews.com ||||| BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) – The family of a 5-year-old girl from Puerto Rico has reached a $500,000 settlement in Buffalo Federal Court after the girl suffered severe burns at a Denny’s restaurant in Angola. 
  
 Tatyana Adames was 14-months-old when she and her parents stopped at the restaurant along the thruway for breakfast in June, 2010. According to court documents, Tatyana was seared by scalding hot coffee that an inattentive Denny’s waitress had placed within her reach. She suffered first and second degree burns to her neck, chest, and abdomen. 
  
 The family filed suit against the owners of the Denny’s in 2012, and the case recently went to trial. Then, Farmer’s Insurance, which covers the now-closed restaurant’s owners, offered to pay $500,000 to settle the suit. Court papers show the family accepted the offer, and U.S. Magistrate Judge Hugh B. Scott approved the final settlement. Although that final settlement is sealed, it is believed to be for the previously disclosed amount of $500,000. 
  
 This case comes more than 20 years after a woman in New Mexico won her lawsuit against McDonalds after she spilled hot coffee on herself. In that instance, the 79-year-old woman suffered third degree burns from spilling her coffee on her lap. Her lawyers successfully claimed the chain was negligent in keeping its coffee at an excessive 180 degrees. 
  
 In the case of Tatyana Adames, there were also claims that the coffee was kept at an overly hot temperature. Because of her injuries, patches of skin came off when Tatyana’s clothing was first removed after the spill. Her medical providers had to remove the rest of the dead skin while Tatyana was under “conscious sedation”. She was in the hospital in Erie, Pennsylvania for several weeks, far away from her home in Puerto Rico. She also now suffers from an inflammatory reaction when exposed to the heat of Puerto Rico, which makes her skin break out in red, painful, itchy rashes. 
  
 A Denny’s handbook providing instructions for employees states that waitresses should “Never set hot items directly in front of a child”. 
  
 Medical advocates estimate the lifetime cost of care for Tatyana’s injuries will exceed $340,000. |||||