Play Facebook 
  
 Twitter 
  
 Embed Holder: Evidence of 'Excessive Force' by Cleveland Police 1:25 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
  
 An independent monitor will oversee changes in the Cleveland police department after a federal investigation found a pattern of “unreasonable and in some cases unnecessary force.” 
  
 The agreement, announced Thursday by outgoing Attorney General Eric Holder, follows a civil rights investigation launched last year, well before the police shooting death two weeks ago of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old boy who was carrying a pellet gun. 
  
 Federal investigators found that the pattern of improper police tactics included shootings, blows to the head and excessive force against the mentally ill. Investigators concluded that Cleveland officers are not given adequate training and supervision. 
  
 Among the high-profile episodes that led to the investigation was a police shooting of an unarmed man and woman in November 2012 that followed a high-speed chase. Thirteen officers fired 137 shots at the man and woman. One officer and six supervisors were indicted. 
  
 While the investigation began before the 12-year-old was killed, Holder mentioned it as among a series of police killings that have started what he called an urgent national conversation about relations between police and citizens. 
  
 President Barack Obama, speaking at an education summit in Washington on Thursday, mentioned another incident — the chokehold death of Eric Garner, a New York man who was confronted by police in July for allegedly selling individual cigarettes. A grand jury declined to indict the officer. 
  
 “When it comes, unfortunately, as we’ve seen in recent days, to our criminal justice system,” Obama said, “too many Americans feel deep unfairness when it comes to the gap between our professed ideals and how laws are applied on a day-to-day basis.” 
  
 Duane Deskins, the first assistant prosecutor of Cuyahoga County, said the goal in Cleveland would be “a more transparent and effective system of justice.” 
  
 “I think every city in every community has its own set of particular issues,” he said. “I think we are trying to solve the problems that we have here.” 
  
 IN-DEPTH 
  
 — Pete Williams and Erin McClam with Ty Wright ||||| RESTRAINED AND KICKED 
  
 After leading officers on a brief chase, a man got out of his van and walked into a group of trees. An officer approached the man with his weapon drawn, and the man followed commands to lie down on the ground and spread his arms and legs. After the man was restrained and on his stomach, officers began kicking and striking the man. He was later taken to the hospital with a broken bone near his eye. 
  
 13-YEAR-OLD PUNCHED 
  
 After officers arrested a 13-year-old boy for shoplifting, he was handcuffed and placed in a police vehicle, where he began kicking the door and an officer in the leg. The officer then sat on the legs of the handcuffed boy and punched him three to four times until the boy was "stunned" and had a bloody nose. 
  
 STUNNED WHILE STRAPPED TO GURNEY 
  
 Officers assisted a man who had suffered several seizures into an ambulance, where he was strapped onto a gurney. The man became angry and tried to unstrap himself, balling his fist. An officer threatened to use a stun gun on him, but the man continued to try to stand up and threatened to hurt the officer. The officer then stunned him while he was still strapped to the gurney. 
  
 PEPPER SPRAYED IN CUFFS 
  
 Officers placed a mentally ill man in handcuffs for making threats to "blow up the government." Because the man was spitting on officers, they placed a hood — called a spit sock — over the man's head. When the man was placed in the police vehicle, he kicked at the windows and continued to spit. An officer ordered him to stop, and then shot pepper spray over the spit sock. The man was required to wear the spit sock and was not decontaminated until he arrived at a hospital later. 
  
 SHOT INSIDE CAR 
  
 After a driver cut off another car while attempting to make a right turn from a center lane, an officer approached the driver with his gun drawn. The officer later said he felt "uneasy" because he couldn't see the driver's hands. The officer ordered the driver to turn off the car and show his hands, but the driver said he was afraid to move because of the officer's gun. When the officer attempted to lean in and turn off the vehicle himself, his gun discharged, striking the driver in the chest. The driver survived. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Source: U.S. Department of Justice ||||| Attorney General Eric Holder announced Thursday that "there is reasonable cause to believe that the Cleveland Division of Police engages in a pattern and practice of using excessive force," after Justice Department investigators examined nearly 600 cases of use of force that occurred between 2010 and 2013. 
  
 Holder went on to say that Cleveland and the Justice Department had agreed on a statement of principles that will lead to a consent decree. 
  
 The investigation in the Cleveland Police Department was launched in March 2013, "following a number of high profile use of force incidents and requests from the community and local government to investigate the [police department]," the report released Thursday said. 
  
 The report cited specific incidents, including a January 2011 police chase of an unarmed man, who suffered "kicks to the head" after he had "surrendered to officers and was handcuffed and prone on the ground." None of the officers filed a report on the use of force, and none "were appropriately disciplined for failing to report the use of force." 
  
 In another incident from November 2012, the report said, "over 100 Cleveland police officers engaged in a high speed chase, in violation of [Cleveland Division of Police] policies, and fatally shot two unarmed civilians. [Cleveland Division of Police] officers ultimately fired 137 shots at the car, killing both its occupants." 
  
 The unreasonable practices the Justice Department found included the following: 
  
 Unnecessary and excessive use of deadly force, including shootings and head strikes with impact weapons 
  
 Unnecessary, excessive or retaliatory use of less lethal force including Tasers, chemical spray and fists 
  
 Excessive force against persons who are mentally ill or in crisis, including in cases where the officers were called exclusively for a welfare check 
  
 Employment of poor and dangerous tactics that places officers in situations where avoidable force becomes inevitable 
  
 Justice Department investigators also said the division doesn't adequately review and investigate the use of force by its officers or fully investigate misconduct allegations or identify and respond to patterns of at-risk behavior. 
  
 The Justice Department and Cleveland Police Department so far have only agreed to come to an agreement about how to address this problem. They will work out the details of that agreement -- the so-called "consent decree" -- in the coming months, but it will include a requirement for an independent monitor who will oversee necessary reforms. 
  
 Holder invoked the names of Michael Brown, Eric Garner and 12-year-old Tamir Rice, who was killed in Cleveland in November, noting that there are ongoing federal civil rights investigations for each of those incidents. The Justice Department's investigation predates the recent shooting of Rice, and CBS News has learned that while that incident was not taken into consideration in the investigation, it will be considered as an agreement on changes that must be made within the Cleveland Division of Police. 
  
 "The tragic losses of these and far too many other Americans - including, just last month, the shooting death of 12-year-old Tamir Rice here in Cleveland - have raised urgent, national questions. And they have sparked an important conversation about the sense of trust that must exist between law enforcement and the communities they serve and protect." 
  
 The Cleveland investigation is the same kind of investigation the Justice Department launched into the Ferguson Police Department after one of its officers, Darren Wilson, shot and killed Michael Brown, an unarmed 18-year-old. 
  
 Holder made his announcement in Cleveland, where he is hosting a round table discussion as part of a tour of several U.S. cities where he will meet with local leaders and discuss relations between the community and law enforcement. He is also expected to visit Memphis, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Oakland in the coming weeks. |||||