Tea party activist Virginia “Ginni” Thomas is joining the media, just not the “mainstream media” she’s described as dedicated to “gotcha journalism” and “lapdogs for the other side.” 
  
 The wife of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas will work as a special correspondent for The Daily Caller, the conservative news website announced Tuesday. “It is a privilege to join such a fast-growing platform with a capable, fun-loving team who are filling a niche that the dinosaur media has underserved,” Thomas said in a statement. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset POLITICO 44 
  
 Tucker Carlson, the site’s co-founder and editor, told POLITICO that Thomas’s position will be part time, beginning in “days or weeks” and will focus on “identifying and interviewing people who might in the future become influential in politics or who are already influential but who you may not know about.” 
  
 Carlson said Thomas “knows a ton of people” and likened her presence at the publication to “a dinner party formula: If you get a lot of interesting people with varied experiences and backgrounds and points of view and put them in one place, they’re apt to provide a pretty interesting evening.” 
  
 Though Thomas has spent much of her career working as a congressional staffer and a political operative, her professional activity has drawn recent criticism from the left as she’s become an outspoken advocate for the tea party movement. She founded Liberty Central, a nonprofit group that attracted attention — and funding — in part because of Thomas’s husband’s high profile. Thomas stepped away from the group late last year, before launching a lobbying firm, Liberty Consulting. 
  
 Her role in advocacy and her husband’s failure to disclose some of her earnings have drawn criticism. Some liberal groups – and 74 House Democrats — have called on Clarence Thomas to recuse himself from any cases related to health care reform because reports suggest that Ginni may have financially benefited from efforts to overturn the legislation. ||||| 'Not only do they get it wrong, there's never any apologies' 
  
 'You need to get conservatives going into graduate school' 
  
 'I jumped the gun and that was stupid and unjust. It is I, not the boys, who needs to take a lesson from this' 
  
 'BuzzFeed, You Do Memes And Lists' — SNL Tears Into BuzzFeed Over Mueller Disputing Their Story 
  
 'We all think it's great that you want to help, but this isn't really what we need from you' ||||| Ginni Thomas, longtime conservative activist and wife of silent Supreme Court Justice (and "national treasure") Clarence Thomas, has a new job! She is... a journalist now, apparently. 
  
 She has been hired by Tucker Carlson's "The Daily Caller," a web magazine that seeks to answer the question, "will people read literally any bullshit at all if we call it 'conservative' and occasionally throw in some sexism and homophobia?" Thomas will be a "special correspondent" for the Caller, which means she will "interview key political and community leaders -- from high-profile politicians to grassroots activists -- with a focus on listening to those outside the Beltway." 
  
 Thomas could use the work, I guess. Her Tea Party group asked her to take a backseat due to the constant negative publicity and scrutiny her presence and activities invited. (Like, for example, the fact that she was actively working to fight a law that her husband will probably eventually have to rule on, as a member of the Supreme Court. And also her husband just lied about her income on his financial disclosure forms, every year, because there was never any chance of any negative consequences for his actions, which is something of a pattern in his professional career.) So she quit and started a lobbying firm that didn't do anything. As long as Thomas is kept busy she may be less likely to call people her husband sexually harassed years ago and ask for apologies. 
  
 If the Caller wants to pick up castoffs from media mergers and management changes -- like Mickey Kaus, formerly of the post-Washington Post/pre-Tina Brown Newsweek, and Matt Lewis, of the pre-Arianna Huffington Politics Daily -- I say good on them. As long as every hack is published somewhere I won't be in need of material, or work. But Ginni Thomas is not a writer. I'm not convinced she can string together coherent sentences. She's a paranoid weirdo who seems more than slightly dumb. If this is supposed to be a "prestige hire," you'll be hard-pressed to find anyone who considers Ginni Thomas a feather in the Caller's cap. Beyond proving that people will pay a well-connected professional conservative to be a well-connected professional conservative no matter how useless and dim she is, I don't see the upside here. 
  
 The last time Ginni Thomas talked to the Caller as a subject, and not an employee, she lied to them about leaving her Tea Party group, which is pretty funny. |||||