Jordan Obita scored the decisive spot-kick, the Dons having missed two of their four attempts after the game finished 2-2 following extra time.
MK Dons took the lead in normal time through Dean Bowditch's penalty, before Callum Harriott's long-range leveller.
Harriott's extra-time second was then cancelled out by Kabongo Tshimanga with two minutes remaining.
Match ends, Reading 2(4), MK Dons 2(2).
Penalty Shootout ends, Reading 2(4), MK Dons 2(2).
Goal!  Reading 2(4), MK Dons 2(2). Jordan Obita (Reading) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the bottom left corner.
Goal!  Reading 2(3), MK Dons 2(2). George C Williams (MK Dons) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.
Penalty missed! Bad penalty by Callum Harriott (Reading) right footed shot misses to the right. Callum Harriott should be disappointed.
Penalty saved! Samir Carruthers (MK Dons) fails to capitalise on this great opportunity,  right footed shot saved  in the bottom right corner.
Goal!  Reading 2(3), MK Dons 2(1). Stephen Quinn (Reading) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.
Penalty missed! Still  Reading 2(2), MK Dons 2(1). Ben Reeves (MK Dons) hits the bar with a right footed shot.
Goal!  Reading 2(2), MK Dons 2(1). George Evans (Reading) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.
Goal!  Reading 2(1), MK Dons 2(1). Ed Upson (MK Dons) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.
Goal!  Reading 2(1), MK Dons 2. Danny Williams (Reading) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the top left corner.
Penalty Shootout begins Reading 2, MK Dons 2.
Second Half Extra Time ends, Reading 2, MK Dons 2.
Corner,  MK Dons. Conceded by Liam Moore.
Goal!  Reading 2, MK Dons 2. Kabongo Tshimanga (MK Dons) left footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal.
Danny Williams (Reading) is shown the yellow card for hand ball.
Stephen Quinn (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Giorgio Rasulo (MK Dons).
Goal!  Reading 2, MK Dons 1. Callum Harriott (Reading) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner.
Corner,  Reading. Conceded by Ben Reeves.
Attempt saved. Ben Reeves (MK Dons) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Roy Beerens (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Samir Carruthers (MK Dons).
Attempt missed. Samir Carruthers (MK Dons) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is close, but misses to the right.
Second Half Extra Time begins Reading 1, MK Dons 1.
First Half Extra Time ends, Reading 1, MK Dons 1.
Corner,  MK Dons. Conceded by Tennai Watson.
Ed Upson (MK Dons) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Joseph Mendes (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ed Upson (MK Dons).
Giorgio Rasulo (MK Dons) hits the bar with a right footed shot from outside the box.
Ben Reeves (MK Dons) hits the right post with a left footed shot from outside the box.
Corner,  MK Dons. Conceded by Anssi Jaakkola.
Roy Beerens (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by George B Williams (MK Dons).
First Half Extra Time begins Reading 1, MK Dons 1.
Second Half ends, Reading 1, MK Dons 1.
Attempt missed. Joseph Mendes (Reading) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high.
Corner,  Reading. Conceded by Lee Nicholls.
Attempt saved. Roy Beerens (Reading) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top right corner.