The Nottingham Pram Company, founded in 1880, made pushchairs and perambulators until 2001.
One customer, Ann Ruddy, 66, got her "well sprung pram" delivered in 1971. She said her second child "spent a lot of time in the pram".
A collection of prams, belonging to John Whitby, who ran the firm for 55 years, was auctioned in November.
The family business was set up in the mid-19th Century by Mr Whitby's grandfather, manufacturing the prams from a factory on Alfreton Road.
Not only were the Victorians "very keen on prams", but families across Nottinghamshire a century later appreciated "such beautifully built prams".
Mother-of-two, Barbara Miller, who bought her pram in 1980 for her first daughter, said it was "a lovely company".
"They kept the pram and delivered it after the baby was born, which is a service I don't think is offered today.
"We had a coach-built one with suspension, which we dressed up for a street party, in Wilford Village in 1981, for the Royal Wedding of Charles and Diana.
"We used the pram a lot and then used it again for our second daughter, Denise, in 1983."
Kim Thomas, 53, from Nottingham, shared the pram she used as a child in 1962 with her sister three years later.
"I think my parents bought the pram for £30 at the time," she said.
"My mum says this pram was in the rear of the shop on a stand that revolved and they saved the money for it - it was the one she wanted.
"The neighbours always came out to see me as they could spot the pram in the street, I must have been a popular baby."
Mother-of-two Ms Ruddy, whose first born arrived five weeks early 45 years ago, said: "I felt great walking miles with the children... I was so proud.
"When my second child was born, I bought a seat to put across the front so it carried them both easily.
"I bought it from the Nottingham Pram Company because they had more individual designs and as we are tall people - we had a choice of higher prams."
One of pieces for sale last month was the "coach-built body" pram, made between 1880 and 1885, which beat its estimate and sold for £590, is similar to the style used by the Royal Family to transport Princess Charlotte to her christening.
Auctioneers said the collection of prams and memorabilia was sold for £6,700, exceeding the expected £2,500 price tag, and brought by various private collectors across the UK.