Soon after Jack and Ally meet, he peels off one of her fake brows — he’s flirting, but he’s also saying that he sees the real her and wants the world to as well. Playful yet unapologetically earnest, this scene inaugurates a seduction — of Ally, of us — that lasts the exhilarating first hour. Mr. Cooper understands the power of big-screen myths, including thunderstruck love and near-magical lucky breaks. He also understands his own star appeal (he gives himself plenty of heat-stoking close-ups), which dovetails with his role as director. When Ally and Jack look at each other, you’re watching two people fall in love, and it’s a contact high. You’re also watching a director guiding — creating — his star as life seeps into fiction. 
  
 Mr. Cooper’s smartest decision, other than casting Lady Gaga, is the absolute sincerity with which he’s taken on this material, in all its gorgeous, gaudy excess. He has refurbished the story some and added a bit too much psychological filler, but he has stayed true to its fundamental seriousness. Winking at this story would have been easy, but would have destroyed it. Instead, working from a script he wrote with Eric Roth and Will Fetters, Mr. Cooper has gone all in with big emotions and cascades of tears. (The movie owes a debt to, and nods at, the original 1937 film as well as the 1954 remake with a peerless Judy Garland.) 
  
 Part of what’s exciting about this “A Star Is Born” is that Mr. Cooper knows he’s telling one of the defining Hollywood stories and has given the movie the polish and scale it merits. He plays with intimacy and cinematic sweep, going in close when Ally and Jack are together so that the world falls away — a scene of them in a parking lot shows how conversation turns to courtship — only to then pull back so we can see the enormity of the world the lovers inhabit once Jack takes Ally on tour. And while the crowd seems little more than a surging blur the first time Jack plays, when Ally looks at the throng, she sees it and so do we. ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| Published on Jun 6, 2018 
  
 Follow #AStarIsBorn on social media: 
  
 www.astarisbornmovie.com 
  
 https://www.facebook.com/StarIsBornMo... 
  
 https://www.twitter.com/starisbornmovie 
  
 https://www.instagram.com/starisbornm... “A Star is Born” stars four-time Oscar nominee Bradley Cooper (“American Sniper,” “American Hustle,” “Silver Linings Playbook”) and multiple award-winning, Oscar-nominated music superstar Lady Gaga, in her first leading role in a major motion picture. Cooper helms the drama, marking his directorial debut. 
  
  
  
 In this new take on the tragic love story, he plays seasoned musician Jackson Maine, who discovers—and falls in love with—struggling artist Ally (Gaga). She has just about given up on her dream to make it big as a singer... until Jack coaxes her into the spotlight. But even as Ally’s career takes off, the personal side of their relationship is breaking down, as Jack fights an ongoing battle with his own internal demons. 
  
  
  
 The cast of “A Star is Born” also includes Andrew Dice Clay, with Dave Chappelle and Sam Elliott. 
  
  
  
 In addition to playing Ally, Gaga, who earned her Oscar nod for the song “Til It Happens to You” from “The Hunting Ground,” performs original songs in the film, which she wrote with Cooper and a handful of artists, including Lukas Nelson, Jason Isbell and Mark Ronson. All the music is original and was recorded live. 
  
  
  
 “A Star is Born” is produced by Bill Gerber, Jon Peters, Bradley Cooper, Todd Phillips and Lynette Howell Taylor. Ravi Mehta, Basil Iwanyk, Niija Kuykendall, Sue Kroll, Michael Rapino and Heather Parry serve as executive producers. The screenplay is by Eric Roth and Bradley Cooper & Will Fetters. 
  
  
  
 Collaborating with Cooper behind the scenes are Oscar-nominated director of photography Matthew Libatique (“Black Swan”), production designer Karen Murphy, three-time Oscar-nominated editor Jay Cassidy (“American Hustle,” “Silver Linings Playbook,” “Into the Wild”), and costume designer Erin Benach. 
  
  
  
 Warner Bros. Pictures Presents, in Association with Live Nation Productions, in Association with Metro Goldwyn Mayer Pictures, A Jon Peters/Bill Gerber/Joint Effort Production, “A Star is Born.” Slated for release on October 5, 2018, the film will be distributed worldwide by Warner Bros. Pictures, a Warner Bros. Entertainment Company. It is rated R. ||||| Lady Gaga has traveled by egg, donned skirt steak and taken part in a TV blood orgy. But her biggest transformation occurs in the new film “A Star Is Born.” In it, she becomes an Oscar-worthy actress. 
  
 Taking on the classic part of a talented unknown who rises to music superstardom — the iconic role that Janet Gaynor, Judy Garland and Barbra Streisand played before her — Gaga proves her acting chops by trading in flash for humanity. 
  
 You won’t believe she’s the same person who once sang the lyric “I wanna take a ride on your disco stick.” And you will be downright shocked that this electrifying film is the third remake of “A Star Is Born.” 
  
 The previous rehash of the 1937 original was the chintzy, critically loathed 1976 version starring a soupy Streisand. Garland and Gaynor’s earlier turns are classic, but oversized by today’s standards. 
  
 Gaga, however, shows brilliant restraint. And for Mother Monster, subtlety is a huge achievement. 
  
 She plays Ally, a waitress at a high-end restaurant who hates her job and is frustrated with her stagnant life. Ally’s passion is singing, which she gets to do at a local drag bar at night. 
  
 During one fortuitous set, famous rocker Jackson Maine (Bradley Cooper) stumbles in drunk. On the hunt for another bottle, he ends up transfixed by Ally’s rendition of “La Vie En Rose” and the pair stay up all night, flirting. 
  
 Jackson flies her out to his concert the next day and she unexpectedly croons an original song with him onstage. The moment becomes a viral YouTube sensation and a whirlwind romance begins, propelled by a true love of their art, but scarred by easy access to booze and hard drugs. Ally is caught in a bad romance as Jackson succumbs to addiction. 
  
 The stripped-down, makeup-free Gaga has chemistry with the equally unrecognizable Cooper. The actor is perfectly charming, and tortured, as Jackson — the affable sort of musician who could always use a shower. Jackson struggles as Ally ascends, and the disintegration of their once-innocent relationship is devastating to watch. Bring the tissues. 
  
 Cooper’s voice is strong, too, and you believe that a few million people might actually buy this guy’s CD. He and Gaga sing many original numbers written for the film. They range from soothing barstool ballads to clubby pop tunes, but are united by their genuine feel. They don’t sound like movie music. 
  
 “A Star Is Born” also marks Cooper’s first movie as director. Virgin filmmakers tend to either overdo it with weird techniques or go textbook basic. But Cooper delivers his gutsy style with the confidence of a veteran, juxtaposing high-octane, quick-cut concerts with long, pale shots of the couple’s home life. 
  
 Most thrilling are the stage sequences. Cooper often films Ally’s thousands of screaming fans from her point of view — putting us in her lucky shoes for a minute. 
  
 It’s that feeling of exhilaration that makes “A Star Is Born” the best film of the year so far. ||||| “It’s the same story, told over and over — forever.” When Jackson Maine, the washed-up rock star played by Bradley Cooper, says that toward the end of the new “A Star Is Born,” you may be forgiven a bit of whiplash. He’s talking about music, the 12 notes in an octave that can be endlessly recombined to find something new. But he could be speaking for the film itself, the fourth (at least) version of a show-business fable that’s as unkillable as it’s oft-told. 
  
 And often very well told, including here. If the 1937 and 1954 versions of “A Star Is Born” remain strong and true, and the 1976 Barbra Streisand remake is an effective artifact of its era — and 1932’s “What Price Hollywood?” still stands as a sassy, edgy forerunner — the latest update, directed by Cooper and built on the sturdy bones of William Wellman’s and Robert Carson’s 1937 script, has heart, soul, and sinew. 
  
 Above all, it has Lady Gaga, both before and after her character’s transformation from an outer-borough duckling into a superstar swan. And it has Cooper both in front of the camera as a growling, insecure ruin of a celebrity and behind it with unexpected first-time assurance. The opening 45 minutes of “A Star Is Born” are as good as mainstream moviemaking gets in the 21st century, and the rest is only slightly less impressive for being so familiar. We’re perfectly willing to come to a story we’ve heard before as long as its emotions can be made convincingly fresh. That’s what happens here. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Which is to say that my heart stopped and yours may, too, when Lady Gaga’s Ally — a waitress and wannabe singer with a fair-sized nose and an outsized voice — turns to the camera in close-up while singing “La Vie en Rose” at a drag bar. She looks Jackson and us square in the eyes, and in those few seconds a movie star is born, and so is a director. One reason “A Star Is Born” has worked and still works is that it often casts an actress whose story — the rise, the talent, the chutzpah — echoes the character’s. As with Judy Garland and Streisand, so with Stefani Germanotta/Lady Gaga, who’s most appealing at her most down-to-earth. The role of Ally is so meta as to cast doubt on whether Lady Gaga can play other kinds of parts; the performance is so galvanizing that you don’t remotely care. 
  
 Get The Weekender in your inbox: The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here 
  
 After Ally meets Jackson, who has wandered into the drag club in an alcoholic haze after headlining an arena show, the movie slows time for an intimate getting-to-know-you session that stretches into the wee hours and the parking lot of an all-night supermarket. The sequence is intensely charming because Cooper the director keeps the camera close and because Cooper the actor and Gaga the costar reveal layers of hurt, longing, insecurity, and ambition. Plus, they’re just hot together, which matters. 
  
 Jackson will soon spirit Ally on his private jet to his next gig, along with her best pal, Ramon (Anthony Ramos), and allow her to share the stage and sing “The Shallow,” her self-penned song that he has thoughtfully and in record time arranged for a full band. That she joins him in improvising complex but perfectly harmonized choruses on the spot is a nod to the absurd movie magic we crave in our origin myths. That the scene works, to hair-raising effect, is strictly due to the stars and the filmmaking, which includes Matthew Libatique’s pungent cinematography and the brilliantly choreographed editing of Jay Cassidy. 
  
 “A Star Is Born” shifts into a baggy and comfortably formulaic gear only when the romance is established and Ally begins her climb to the top. In a movie that occasionally bears down too heavily on visual forebodings (that billboard with the nooses) and timeworn plotting, we know we’ve found our villain with the arrival of Rex (Rafi Gavron), a young, stridently hip record producer. It is he who will make Ally over into a Top 40 pop tart, complete with backup dancers and orange hair; it is he who shows no sympathy as the sozzled Jackson gives in to his demons and begins the long slide down. 
  
 If there’s a flaw in this “Star,” it’s that it’s never clear what the movie thinks of Ally’s transformation. Jackson Maine is a little bit country, a little bit Skynyrd, a little bit Eddie Vedder, maybe some Neil Young on crunchy rawk guitar — he’s his own genre, really, but one that looks back to a shared rock past of many moviegoers. His signature song has a chorus that runs “Maybe it’s time to let the old ways die,” but you can tell he’s ambivalent. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Ally starts out belting her songs solo on a piano a la Carole King (whose “Tapestry” album cover is tacked to her bedroom wall), but she rapidly ascends to the style and success of an Adele, a Katy Perry, a Sia — or a Lady Gaga. We see that rise through the distrusting eyes of her new husband, but whether we’re meant to share his disapproval is left murky, perhaps for fear of pulling the rug out from under his costar and souring sales of the soundtrack album. “A Star Is Born” has an eye to more than one audience. It seems a little nervous they might cancel each other out. 
  
 Yet that sourness and uncertainty is there, given voice by the worried and supportive men surrounding Jackson, including a much older brother and tour manager, Bobby (invaluable Sam Elliott), and a childhood friend and bandmate played by Dave Chappelle, whose cameo shares some clear-eyed wisdom about the difficulties of fame. Ally just has the girls back at the drag bar, who, along with Ramon, largely disappear from the movie; that producer, who’s British (boo) and wears girly socks; and a lovable, egotistical mook of a father (Andrew Dice Clay). “A Star Is Born” lives mostly in Jackson’s world, from whence it peers anxiously out at Ally’s. For these and other reasons, it stands to be an enormous hit. 
  
 Yet the movie manages to have its Top 40 cake and middle-American apple pie, too, and every time Cooper circles back to the central relationship, it feels hushed and honest – a quality this “Star” shares with the 1937 and 1954 versions. Cooper the director nods to the latter with a gorgeously simple opening title sequence (it already feels like a poster) and finds a way to up the ante on Jackson’s humiliation during the awards-ceremony scene, a moment that outdoes every previous “Star” for sheer self-immolating awfulness. 
  
 To its credit, the movie never excuses Jackson as anything other than the author of his own misfortunes. But it does dig a little more deeply than before into the intense and ironic loss of self that can come with celebrity, especially in the age of 24-7 selfies and cellphones. Everyone but Jackson Maine knows who Jackson Maine is, and everyone wants a piece of him. “I’m sorry, but I had to,” says a supermarket cashier (Luenell) after snapping a discreet photo of him and Ally during that first evening together. “It’s all right,” mumbles Jackson. “No, it’s not,” snaps Ally. 
  
 That line suggests she has a lot to learn about being famous but also the strength to learn it, and the payoff comes nearly two hours later, with a climactic memorial performance of “I’ll Never Love Again” that will leave you a soggy mess whether you like it or not. “A Star Is Born” pushes the reset button on one of our most primal bedtime stories, the fairy-tale of arrival and the fall that accompanies it, as if there’s always only room for one. It offers no insight whatsoever on the things a star has to do to endure. For that, I guess, there’s “Sunset Blvd.” 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 ★★★½ 
  
 A STAR IS BORN 
  
 Directed by Bradley Cooper. Written by Cooper, Eric Roth, and Will Fetters, based on a story by William Wellman and Robert Carson. Starring Lady Gaga, Bradley Cooper. At Boston theaters, Coolidge Corner, West Newton, suburbs. 135 minutes. R (language throughout, some sexuality/nudity, substance abuse). 
  
 Ty Burr can be reached at ty.burr@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @tyburr ||||| RATING: **** (out of 4) 
  
 Director: Bradley Cooper 
  
 Cast: Bradley Cooper, Lady Gaga, Andrew Dice Clay, Dave Chappelle, Sam Elliott 
  
 Screenplay: Bradley Cooper, Eric Roth, Will Fetters 
  
 Running time: 135 minutes 
  
 Like crafting the perfect pop song, remaking a film classic requires the utmost precision and care. 
  
 One false performance, one scene that doesn’t ring true, and the whole thing can fall apart. 
  
 So of course, Bradley Cooper’s A Star Is Born winded its way to theatres with a jukebox full of expectations. Even if you weren’t a fan of one of the three other versions that have been released (which include the 1976 hit starring Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson), the idea of casting Lady Gaga as an unknown singer with pop star aspirations might cause even her most ardent fans to raise a skeptical eyebrow. 
  
 But, working from a script that he co-wrote with Eric Roth and Will Fetters, Cooper has managed to do the impossible. He’s put together an instant movie classic that will have audiences falling in love with his brand new creation. 
  
 Cooper plays Jackson Maine, a popular country star who, when we meet him, is on a downward spiral. Following a packed show (which was filmed at Glastonbury in front of 80,000 people), Jackson stops for a drink at a drag bar where he witnesses Gaga’s Ally singing a breath-stopping version of Edith Piaf’s La Vie En Rose. 
  
 In an instant, Jackson — and the audience — is smitten. 
  
 The chemistry between Cooper and Gaga in the film’s opening frames is electric as they bar hop and then walk the aisle at a grocery store. Thrusting his camera up close, Cooper leaves both himself and the Grammy-winning singer nowhere to hide. They’re completely vulnerable and you realize how perfect they both are at playing people who’ve been bruised by life and are now falling madly in love. 
  
 After that whirlwind night, Jackson invites Ally to his next concert where he brings her onstage to sing. As clips of Ally’s performance go viral, her star is born. 
  
 If you’re familiar with the tragic story, you know where this is heading: as Ally’s musical dreams start to be realized, Jackson’s stature begins to fade. 
  
 But in between, Cooper infuses his fresh take with a cast of characters that draws you further into Jackson and Ally’s orbit of dreamers and heartbreak. This is a love story that crackles with electricity backed by songs that pulsate with emotional intensity. 
  
 There’s her father (played by Andrew Dice Clay), a limo driver who long harboured his own dreams of stardom. As Noodles, Dave Chappelle plays a family man who shows Jackson the value in taking the road less travelled. Then we get Sam Elliott, as Jackson’s brother Bobby. He’s only in the film for a handful of scenes, but in those moments we see a man who sacrificed his own spot in music history to babysit his drug-addled little brother. 
  
 And again, with Cooper inviting us into these worlds, we’re right there alongside Ally and Jackson, swooning and despairing as their relationship burns across the screen. 
  
 As a singer, Gaga has proven herself adept at reinventing herself with each new album. But as an actress, she’s a complete revelation. 
  
 Here, Gaga, who won a Golden Globe for American Horror Story: Hotel, sheds her pop star persona to give us an Ally whom, when we first meet, has abandoned her dreams. As she becomes more successful, and falls deeper in love with Jackson, we want so desperately for her to have the happily ever after that’s eluded so many of the other characters we encounter. 
  
 Ally is a character we can believe in and Gaga’s performance is certain to earn her some awards love by the year’s end. 
  
 Likewise, Cooper, who has elevated his acting game before, completely transforms himself slipping into the role of Jackson. With a backing band that’s made up of Lukas Nelson & the Promise of the Real, he gives us bits of a back story that let us see why the character, even under the dizzying spell of love, is intent on hitting rock bottom. 
  
 The main story points from previous versions of A Star Is Born stay intact, but Cooper has created something fresh and wholly original that makes it stand apart. 
  
 His rendition soars to dazzling new heights, plucking different emotional strings. Still, the tragic punch leaves you speechless as the credits role. 
  
 Twitter: @markhdaniell 
  
 mdaniell@postmedia.com |||||