The Canterbury prop, 31, missed the 38-12 win over Scotland with a knee injury but replaces Hull FC's Scott Taylor.
Half-backs Kevin Brown and Gareth Widdop are both included alongside George Williams and Luke Gale, the duo who started against Scotland.
Wigan second row Liam Farrell and centre Dan Sarginson are left out.
England will reach the final at Anfield on 20 November if they win or draw.
"Australia are the best team in the competition right now and it's a challenge we're all looking forward to," said England coach Wayne Bennett.
Brown played in the warm-up win over France, scoring a try, while Widdop was axed after the opening Four Nations defeat to New Zealand.
If Williams retains his place and plays alongside either Brown or Widdop, it would be England's third different half-back partnership in as many matches.
Media playback is not supported on this device
"I know how much ability this team has got and I want them to play to that ability on Sunday," said Bennett. "That's the best chance we've got.
"I just want the boys to get back to the way we played against New Zealand in the first game of the tournament. There's been a lot of improvements this week. The attitude is there and everyone's working hard."
Tyson Frizell has been recalled by Australia after being left out of the team that beat New Zealand last Saturday.
The St George Illawarra second rower, who played for Wales in the 2013 World Cup, made his first start for the Kangaroos in their opening 54-12 win over Scotland and will be on the bench at the London Stadium.
Half-back Cooper Cronk and centre Josh Dugan are recalled to the starting line-up after being rested for the 14-8 win over the Kiwis.
Dugan takes over from Justin O'Neill while Cronk displaces Michael Morgan, who returns to his customary bench role.
Forward Sam Thaiday is also named on the bench despite picking up a knee injury against New Zealand so Shannon Boyd stands by to take his place.
England squad: John Bateman (Wigan Warriors), Kevin Brown (Widnes Vikings), George Burgess (South Sydney Rabbitohs), Sam Burgess (South Sydney Rabbitohs), Thomas Burgess (South Sydney Rabbitohs), Daryl Clark (Warrington Wolves), Mike Cooper (Warrington Wolves/St George-Illwarra Dragons), Luke Gale (Castleford Tigers), James Graham (Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs), Ryan Hall (Leeds Rhinos), Chris Hill (Warrington Wolves), Josh Hodgson (Canberra Raiders), Jonny Lomax (St Helens), Jermaine McGillvary (Huddersfield Giants), Mark Percival (St Helens), Kallum Watkins (Leeds Rhinos), Elliott Whitehead (Canberra Raiders), Gareth Widdop (St George-Illawarra Dragons), George Williams (Wigan Warriors)
Australia team: Darius Boyd (Brisbane); Valentine Holmes (Cronulla), Josh Dugan (St George Illawarra), Greg Inglis (South Sydney), Blake Ferguson (Sydney Roosters); Johnathan Thurston (North Queensland), Cooper Cronk (Melbourne); Matt Scott (North Queensland), Cameroon Smith (Melbourne, capt), Aaron Woods (Wests Tigers), Matt Gillett (Brisbane), Boyd Cordner (Sydney Roosters),  Trent Merrin (Penrith).  Subs: David Klemmer (Canterbury), Michael Morgan (North Queensland) Tyson Frizell (St George Illawarra), Sam Thaiday (Brisbane).
Subscribe to the BBC Sport newsletter to get our pick of news, features and video sent to your inbox.