If he wins the Heisman Trophy or not Saturday, Alabama running back and Yulee native Derrick Henry is likely to enter the 2016 NFL Draft. And then the questions will begin. 
  
 Too many carries in college? A product of an elite offensive line? Too big of a target to hit and thus more susceptible to injury? More scheme specific, which would limit the available fits? 
  
 Henry will be a fascinating case study once the Scouting Combine and pre-draft workouts roll around. 
  
 To get an evaluation on Henry, the Times-Union asked Dan Hatman, a former scout for Philadelphia and the New York Giants and Jets and current director of The Scouting Academy, for his analysis. 
  
 Hatman watched four of Henry’s games (last year against Florida and this year against Wisconsin, Mississippi and Auburn) Wednesday and provided his findings. 
  
 Related: Anchor of Alabama football, Heisman Trophy finalist Derrick Henry means even more to Yulee 
  
 Related: Records tell the story of Derrick Henry 
  
 “From what can I see of Derrick and what I’m seeing around the NFL, he’s an individual who’s going to be a little more reliant on scheme and his blocking [than other backs] to be at his most effective,” Hatman said. “If you want him to stop on a dime, make guys miss and create on his own if the blocking breaks down, he’s not your guy. 
  
 “But he’s a fun kid to watch. Alabama blocks well and when he gets into the open field and gets running and gets a head of steam, it’s pretty impressive.” 
  
 Asked what round he would consider drafting Henry, Hatman said not in the top 21/2 to 3 rounds. Several mock drafts have Henry rated higher, some as a late first-round pick. 
  
 “I think in the Nos. 100-150 range — basically the fourth round,” he said. “I’m a little biased because I don’t value running backs highly. There are too many guys who have been drafted in the sixth round or later — or not drafted at all — and been functional.” 
  
 Hatman was asked to break down Henry is several departments. 
  
 ■ Workload. Henry carried only 208 times in his first two college seasons but his junior-year odometer is at 339 entering Alabama’s College Football Playoff semifinal game against Michigan State on Dec. 31. 
  
 By comparison, only 78 times in NFL history has a running back had at least 340 attempts in a season. Hatman said the amount of carries is “absolutely” an issue. 
  
 “You look at what you can get out of his rookie deal — does he have the tread on his tire to give a team 3-4 years?” Hatman said. “There is no doubt evaluators are looking at those snap counts.” 
  
 ■ Running style. Hatman was impressed by Henry’s balance and his ability to avoid the big hit even though he’s a big body (6-foot-3, 242 pounds). 
  
 “The thing that surprised me is he didn’t have as much lateral agility as I thought or hoped,” Hatman said. “But what he has is good balance. And even though he gives a long target for a defender to hit, he takes glancing blows and has subtle moves — not huge jump-cut moves — and he can move 2-3 inches and then, all of a sudden, the hit is glancing and he has the balance to keep moving. 
  
 “Balance is big for a back because you’re going to have a defender on you more often than not within five yards, so the question is at that point, can you stay up after contact and push for more yards? He moves really well.” 
  
 Hatman also said Henry showed good vision and patience. 
  
 “He’s not a bull in a china shop,” he said. “He understands what he’s looking for. When it’s time to be patient and let a puller get through or a blocker seal, he can. Other times, he can hit the hole and hit it [right away]. And if he hits the open field at full speed, you’re not going to bring him down.” 
  
 Slideshow: Derrick Henry's path from local star to Heisman Trophy favorite 
  
 ■ Comparisons. Hatman said Henry reminds him of two current rookies — third-round pick Matt Jones (Florida) of the Washington Redskins and fifth-round pick Karlos Williams (Florida State) of the Buffalo Bills. 
  
 “Those were guys who weren’t graded high by the major draft [experts] last year because they didn’t look pretty like LeSean McCoy with all of the quick moves, lateral agility or explosive elements,” Hatman said. “But when the blocking’s been right this year, they’ve both sprung some explosive runs.” 
  
 ■ Scheme. Hatman said Henry is a better fit for an offense that concentrates on a zone blocking system. 
  
 Hatman said Oakland, San Francisco, Pittsburgh and Carolina would fit Henry’s skills, “because they use a wide range of power runs mixed with inside zone, which is the background Derrick has.” 
  
 Hatman said Alabama’s scheme is similar to the Panthers. 
  
 Overall, Hatman said Henry’s draft stock could also be impacted by how many NFL teams will enter the draft feeling they’re set at running back. 
  
 “With the sheer number of running backs taken in the last 2-3 years, not many teams are devoid of talent at that position,” Hatman said. “That could potentially deflate [the draft stock] of this year’s whole pool of running backs.” 
  
 Ryan O’Halloran: (904) 359-4401 ||||| NEW YORK ― Derrick Henry must have heard a lot about his workload lately. 
  
 It's been heavier than any running back in Alabama football history, but he doesn't think it's so crazy. On the day before the 7 p.m. CT Heisman Trophy ceremony in New York, Henry got another question about how many times he's running the ball. 
  
 "People make a big deal about these carries," he said with what sounded like a small degree of frustration. "I mean, I want the ball. I want to play so it's not a big deal to me." 
  
 Henry's 339 carries broke Shaun Alexander's season school record of 302 set in 1999. He's No. 2 on the SEC list, within striking distance of Herschel Walker's 385 recorded in 1981. 
  
 So this isn't exactly common. 
  
 "I mean, it's rare, but I want the ball when I play, and I told coach I want the ball. I want to help the team win," Henry said. "When you have somebody that's the leader of the team, that's something you should respect." 
  
 The burden has been especially heavy in the last few games. Henry took 90 carries combined in wins over Auburn and Florida. The 46 Iron Bowl runs broke Johnny Musso's school record of 42 set way back in 1970. 
  
 http://www.al.com/alabamafootball/index.ssf/2015/12/heisman_finalists_give_their_t.html 
  
 Kenyan Drake's Nov. 14 broken arm contributed to Henry's big carry numbers to close the season. It wasn't the plan to start the year as Nick Saban's said a few times he wanted to get more backs involved. 
  
 But it's working pretty well with Henry. It might be enough for him to win the school's second Heisman Trophy on Saturday night. 
  
 Henry's not complaining about the work. 
  
 "Everybody knows that's what Alabama runs, our tradition, we run the ball being physical, trying to wear down the opponent," Henry said. "We can pass the ball too. Jake got better week after week. Like I said, I just want to make plays. I just want them to give me the ball and I'll take it." |||||