In its new issue, the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo reacted to the gruesome attacks that shook Paris on Friday. 
  
 The cover depicted a man dancing around, with a bottle of Champagne in one hand and drinking out of a flute while the Champagne poured out of apparent bullet holes in his body. The text surrounding the image says: "They have arms. F--- them. We have the Champagne!" 
  
 The cover was posted on social media ahead of the magazine's release on Wednesday by a columnist for Charlie Hebdo, Mathieu Madénian. 
  
 Last week's attacks on Paris left at least 129 people dead and hundreds more injured, after a wave of shootings and suicide bombings at restaurants, bars, a concert hall, and a sports stadium. The incidents constituted the deadliest attack on French soil since World War II. The Islamic State group, also known as ISIS and ISIL, claimed responsibility for the attacks. 
  
 Charlie Hebdo was itself attacked early this year. On January 7, 12 people were killed in a shooting at Charlie Hebdo's offices in Paris. Five others were killed in several related attacks throughout the capital, including a hostage situation at a Kosher market. 
  
 The magazine was targeted in part for its often controversial depictions of religious and political leaders, including the Prophet Muhammad. 
  
 The two men behind the Charlie Hebdo attacks, Said and Cherif Kouachi, had been well known to French authorities. Cherif had been jailed before and was reportedly influenced by a radical preacher in France. 
  
 Two days after the attack, a top cleric from Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was intended as "revenge for the honor" of the Prophet Muhammad. 
  
 The slogan, "Je suis Charlie" — French for, "I am Charlie" — became a popular rallying cry across social media after the shootings. After the attacks, hundreds of thousands of people rallied in France and around the world to show their support for the victims and to defend free speech. 
  
 This week's cover is already being shared widely on social media. It embodies a sentiment shared by many Parisians after the attacks: resilience. ||||| French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo posted the cover of this week’s issue — which responds to last week's attacks in Paris — on social media Tuesday. The cartoon depicts a man dancing and drinking Champagne, which is pouring out of the bullet holes in his body. “Ils Ont Les Armes. On Les Emmerde. On A Le Champagne!” the message reads. “They have arms. Fuck them. We have the Champagne!” 
  
 The Paris-based magazine, known for its controversial depictions of religious and political leaders, was the target of a terrorist attack that killed 12 people in January of this year. The new issue will hit stands Wednesday. 
  
 Other artists have responded similarly, including French comic-book artist and film director Joann Sfar — also a former contributor to Charlie Hebdo — who drew several cartoons of his own celebrating the vibrancy of life in France. 
  
  |||||