Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump will nominate Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, Trump announced Tuesday night at the White House. 
  
 The nomination of Gorsuch, a 49-year-old federal appellate judge from Colorado, gives Trump and Republicans the opportunity to confirm someone who could cement the conservative direction of the court for decades. 
  
 His selection also sets up an intense fight with Senate Democrats, still angry over the Republicans' decision to essentially ignore former President Barack Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland for the empty Supreme Court seat last year. 
  
 Introducing Gorsuch, Trump said he had committed as a candidate to "find the very best judge in the country for the Supreme Court." 
  
 "Millions of voters said this was the single most important issue for them when they voted for me for president," Trump said. "I am a man of my word." 
  
 "Today I am keeping another promise to the American people by nominating Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court." 
  
 The court has been operating with eight justices since the sudden death last February of Justice Antonin Scalia. If confirmed, Gorsuch would continue the ideological balance that existed before Scalia's death, with four conservatives, four liberals and Justice Anthony Kennedy as a swing vote between the blocs. 
  
 Trump selected Gorsuch -- who sits on the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals -- from a list of 20 potential justices compiled during the presidential campaign in a direct appeal to conservative and evangelical voters skeptical about his commitment to their values. 
  
 Gorsuch's opinions on religious liberty, where he sided with the challengers to the so-called Obamacare contraceptive mandate, and on the separation of powers, where he said too much deference was given by the courts to administrative agencies, are key to his appeal to Republicans. As is his age. At 49, he could carry on Trump's legacy long after the President leaves office. 
  
 Gorsuch's legal philosophy 
  
 Unlike others on Trump's list, Gorsuch has an Ivy League pedigree, having attended Columbia and Harvard, and also studied at Oxford, where he earned a doctorate in legal philosophy. 
  
 Gorsuch is a fourth-generation Coloradan and a former clerk to both Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. 
  
 "It is an extraordinary resume. As good as it gets," Trump said. 
  
 "The qualifications of Judge Gorsuch are beyond dispute," Trump said. "I only hope that Democrats and Republicans can come together for one, for the good of the country." 
  
 On the bench he joined an opinion siding with closely held corporations who believed that the so-called contraceptive mandate of Obamacare violated their religious beliefs. The ruling was later upheld by the Supreme Court. Gorsuch wrote separately holding that the mandate infringed upon the owners' religious beliefs "requiring them to lend what their religion teaches to be an impermissible degree of assistance to the commission of what their religion teaches to be a moral wrong." 
  
 He also wrote a majority opinion in a separation of powers case holding that too much deference was given to administrative agencies. This issue is a favorite of conservatives and Gorsuch's beliefs align with those of Scalia and Justice Clarence Thomas. 
  
 Gorsuch, in a speech last year at Case Western Reserve University School of law, aligned himself with Scalia's judicial philosophy. 
  
 "The great project of Justice Scalia's career was to remind us of the differences between judges and legislators. To remind us that legislators may appeal to their own moral convictions and to claims about social utility to reshape the law as they think it should be in the future, " he said. "But that judges should do none of these things in a democratic society." 
  
 At the White House Gorsuch he would faithfully commit to upholding the laws of the nation, saying he would act as a "servant of the Constitution and laws of this country." 
  
 Like Trump, he cited Scalia as a model. 
  
 "Justice Scalia was a lion of the law," he said. 
  
 Democratic opposition and the ghost of Garland 
  
 Senate Democratic leaders instantly painted Gorsuch as an extremist and said he must get the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster. 
  
 "Judge Gorsuch has repeatedly sided with corporations over working people, demonstrated a hostility toward women's rights, and most troubling, hewed to an ideological approach to jurisprudence that makes me skeptical that he can be a strong, independent justice on the court," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a statement. 
  
 Sen. Patrick Leahy, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Trump "outsourced this process to far-right interest groups." 
  
 "President Trump said he would appoint justices who would overturn 40 years of jurisprudence established in Roe v. Wade," Leahy said. "Judge Gorsuch has shown a willingness to limit women's access to health care that suggests the President is making good on that promise." 
  
 For Democrats, the nomination is made worse by what happened with Garland. 
  
 When Obama nominated Garland to take Scalia's seat last year, liberals hoped that they would get a liberal majority that would swing the court left on key issues such as abortion, campaign finance and voting rights. 
  
 But Senate Republicans refused to hold hearings, citing the impending election which was still eight months away. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Who is Judge Neil Gorsuch? Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is Judge Neil Gorsuch? 00:48 
  
 Democrats have said they would fight the new nominee "tooth and nail" putting not only his or her credentials to the test, but holding Republicans responsible for what liberals say is a "stolen seat." 
  
 After Trump's unexpected win, conservatives rejoiced, expecting the new president to nominate someone to the bench in the mold of Scalia. They also hope that with three justices on the Supreme Court in their late 70s and early 80s, Trump might have at least one more vacancy to fill. 
  
 If, for example, Justice Anthony Kennedy were to step down, the conservatives might be able to chip away at Roe v. Wade, the landmark opinion that legalized abortion. 
  
 Mother was EPA administrator 
  
 Gorsuch's confirmation would mean a return to Washington. 
  
 He spent part of his youth in Washington when his mother, Anne Gorsuch Burford, served in the Reagan administration as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
  
 She resigned in 1983 under controversy after refusing to turn over toxic waste records to Congress. 
  
 He served as a partner at a prestigious Washington Law firm, Kellogg, Huber as well as Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General. 
  
 Gorsuch and his wife Louise have two daughters. They live in Boulder, Colorado. ||||| WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday nominated Judge Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, elevating a conservative in the mold of Justice Antonin Scalia to succeed the late jurist and touching off a brutal, partisan showdown at the start of his presidency over the ideological bent of the nation’s highest court. 
  
 Mr. Trump announced his selection during a much-anticipated evening ceremony that unfolded in prime time at the White House. He described Judge Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge based in Denver, as “a man who our country really needs, and needs badly, to ensure the rule of law and the rule of justice.” 
  
 “Judge Gorsuch has outstanding legal skills, a brilliant mind, tremendous discipline and has earned bipartisan support,” Mr. Trump said, standing beside the judge and his wife, Louise, as White House officials and Republican lawmakers looked on. “It is an extraordinary résumé — as good as it gets.” 
  
 But Democrats — embittered by Republican refusals for nearly a year to consider President Barack Obama’s choice to succeed Justice Scalia, and inflamed by Mr. Trump’s aggressive moves at the start of his tenure — promised a showdown over Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation. ||||| Today, HRC announced its opposition to President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States. 
  
 “Never in the history of our movement have we had more at stake as a community, or as a country,” said HRC President Chad Griffin. “Since the moment he stepped foot in the Oval Office, President Trump has attacked equality. He has signed executive orders that undermine our country’s most cherished values and appointed anti-LGBTQ cabinet nominees who have spent their careers undermining civil rights. And now, he has nominated Judge Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, fulfilling his campaign promise to nominate a justice in the mold of Antonin Scalia, one of the most vehemently anti-LGBTQ justices to ever sit on the court who once went so far as to compare gay people to murderers. The Supreme Court has played a central role in advancing the promise of equality for LGBTQ Americans, and Judge Gorsuch’s anti-equality record -- from opposing crucial medical treatment for a transgender person to supporting a license to discriminate for private corporations -- make him unfit to sit on the nation’s highest court. We cannot afford a justice who will roll back our rights, or who will be a rubber stamp for Donald Trump’s unconstitutional actions. And America cannot afford to have Judge Gorsuch on the Supreme Court. We oppose this nomination.” 
  
 Gorsuch has a long and troubling career opposing civil rights, including for LGBTQ people: 
  
 Gorsuch called marriage equality part of the liberal social agenda, saying, “American liberals have become addicted to the courtroom… as the primary means of effecting their social agenda on everything from gay marriage to assisted suicide…” 
  
 He joined the Tenth Circuit’s decision in Hobby Lobby v. Sebelius, which asserted that that some private corporations are “people” under federal law and have a right to deny basic healthcare coverage if it violates their religious belief. This expansive ruling could allow employers to deny transgender employees access to hormone treatment, access to birth control and other crucial health care for LGBTQ people. 
  
 Hobby Lobby could have negative long-term consequences beyond health care for the LGBTQ community. There are those who are already trying to use the decision to support discrimination against LGBTQ workers. 
  
 In 2015, Gorsuch joined a ruling against a transgender woman who was denied consistent access to hormone therapy while incarcerated. The ruling dismissed the prisoner’s claims that the denial of care amounted to cruel and unusual punishment under the U.S. Constitution. 
  
 He has advocated for eliminating Chevron deference, a critical administrative law doctrine that allows our federal system of regulations to function, which could result in the significant loss protections for LGBTQ people. 
  
 Given this record, HRC has taken the extraordinary step of opposing this Supreme Court nominee prior to his confirmation hearing -- a first for the organization. Donald Trump used recommendations from the Heritage Foundation, a staunchly conservative and anti-equality think tank, to create a shortlist of candidates for the seat on the Court -- an organization that has fought every LGBTQ equality case that has come before the Supreme Court. Judge Gorsuch’s record, coupled with Trump’s discriminatory executive actions, his other, troubling appointees, and the campaign promise to appoint a justice in the mold of Antonin Scalia leaves no room for us to doubt that his pick will be negative for the LGBTQ community. 
  
 We cannot afford a Supreme Court justice who will be a rubber stamp for Donald Trump’s horrific actions. And because so many of the LGBTQ community’s hard-fought rights have been secured in the nation’s highest court: 
  
 Romer v. Evans (1996) which stopped states from forbidding nondiscrimination protections for LGBTQ people 
  
 Lawrence v. Texas (2003) invalidated laws criminalizing same-sex relationships 
  
 United States v. Windsor (2013) required federal recognition of same-sex marriages 
  
 Obergefell v. Hodges (2015) brought nationwide marriage equality to every state 
  
 HRC opposes Judge Gorsuch’s nomination to the Supreme Court. We have no reason to believe he will be an advocate for LGBTQ Americans, and we urge senators to vote “no.” 
  
  ||||| United States President Donald Trump announced Tuesday his intent to nominate Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. As the likely next justice on the high court, his nomination was likely to bring up questions about his background — including his net worth. 
  
 Gorsuch, 49, serves on the 10th circuit court of appeals in Colorado. He's the son of Anne Gorsuch Burford, who headed the Environmental Protection Agency in the 1980s before she resigned amid allegations that she mishandled toxic waste cleanups. With degrees from Columbia University and Harvard Law School, Gorsuch was nominated and confirmed for his most recent position by President George W. Bush in 2006, according to SCOTUS Blog. 
  
 Gorsuch's 2015 financial disclosure report showed he received $26,000 for teaching at the University of Colorado Law School and about $5,300 in book royalties. His investments, represented only as ranges in the report, could add up to $7.2 million, according to Law.com. He has financial holdings with the United States Automobile Association and municipal bonds, according to the National Law Journal. 
  
 Supreme Court associate justices make $249,300 yearly, while the chief justice earns $260,700, according to the National Taxpayers Union Foundation. This is up from a decade ago, when associate justices made $203,000 and their leader made $212,100. 
  
 It's hard to figure out justices' exact net worth because financial disclosure forms only require them to list investments in ranges. 
  
 As of 2013, Ruth Bader Ginsburg had likely the highest net worth on the Supreme Court, with between $4.4 million and $18.1 million in income and assets, according to the Center for Public Integrity. Just behind her was Stephen Breyer, whose net worth was estimated between $5 million and $17.1 million, and Sonia Sotomayor, whose assets were thought to total between $1.7 million and $10.3 million. 
  
 Justices in general enjoy lots of travel — the late Antonin Scalia went on 28 reimbursed trips in 2013 — and income from universities where they teach when they're not in session, CNN reported. ||||| WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump plans to announce his pick for the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday night and one of the leading contenders is Judge Neil Gorsuch, a fourth-generation Coloradan and conservative jurist who has written against euthanasia and in favor of political term limits. 
  
 For several days, Gorsuch, a justice on the Denver-based 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, has stayed on the short list of nominees expected to fill the seat of Justice Antonin Scalia, who died last year. Also there: William Pryor Jr. of the 11th Circuit and Thomas Hardiman of the 3rd Circuit – though Trump could go in a different direction, too. 
  
 Gorsuch is considered a top pick for reasons both legal and political. 
  
 “I feel very good about his chances,” said U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner, who pointed out that the Senate approved by voice vote his 2006 nomination for his current judicial post. “People felt so confident in him and his qualifications that they didn’t even require a recorded vote.” 
  
 Education and work history 
  
 His resume sparkles with top-caliber schools (Columbia, Harvard and Oxford). His work background includes time as a partner with the Washington law firm Kellogg Huber Hansen Todd Evans & Figel, a stint with the U.S. Department of Justice and clerkships with Supreme Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. 
  
 “He has grabbed every brass ring,” said David Lat, managing editor of the legal website Above the Law. “He’s brilliant, conservative and impossible to oppose. That’s a deadly combination for Democrats.” 
  
 Two other Colorado judges were on Trump’s original list of 21 potential nominees: Colorado Supreme Court Justice Allison Eid and Tim Tymkovich, chief judge for the 10th Circuit. 
  
 If nominated, Gorsuch would have to get approval from the U.S. Senate before sitting on the high court. But unlike 2006, he likely would encounter strong resistance from Democrats, who remain angry over how Republicans stalled for months the nomination of Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s pick. 
  
 Euthanasia, birth control and other notable cases 
  
 For conservatives, Gorsuch meets conservative standards as an originalist and a textualist — someone who interprets the Constitution and statutes as they were originally written. His family has ties to the Republican party locally and in Washington, and at the age of 49, he could sit on the high court for decades — a big plus for conservative supporters. 
  
 Gorsuch is best known nationally for taking the side of religious organizations that opposed parts of the Affordable Care Act that compelled coverage of contraceptives. In one of those cases, Burwell vs. Hobby Lobby Stores, he wrote of the need for U.S. courts to give broad latitude to religious beliefs. 
  
 “It is not for secular courts to rewrite the religious complaint of a faithful adherent, or to decide whether a religious teaching about complicity imposes ‘too much’ moral disapproval on those only ‘indirectly’ assisting wrongful conduct,” he noted in a concurring opinion. 
  
 The Supreme Court later ruled in favor of Hobby Lobby, which now is not required to subsidize birth control that it finds objectionable. 
  
 Gorsuch also has written against euthanasia and assisted suicide, the latter of which Colorado legalized last November. “All human beings are intrinsically valuable and the intentional taking of human life by private persons is always wrong,” he wrote in his 2006 book “The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia.” 
  
 Gorsuch’s published works show conservative leanings. In a 2005 article in the National Review, Gorsuch argued that “American liberals have become addicted to the courtroom, relying on judges and lawyers rather than elected leaders and the ballot box, as the primary means of effecting their social agenda.” 
  
 Opponents cite the Hobby Lobby ruling and a dissenting position Gorsuch took in the 10th Circuit’s ruling against the Denver-based Little Sisters of the Poor, a Catholic order that runs nursing homes for impoverished seniors. The U.S. Supreme Court recently ruled in favor of the group, which sought an exemption to the health care law’s requirement that employer health plans provide access to contraception, sending the case back to district court. 
  
 “Judge Gorsuch has a record of ruling in a way that does not reflect Colorado values on reproductive rights. This is a pro-choice state that supports the constitutional right to abortion enshrined in Roe v. Wade and the right to privacy enshrined in Griswold v. Connecticut — beliefs that are contradicted in Judge Gorsuch’s ruling in Hobby Lobby and Little Sisters,” Karen Middleton, executive director of NARAL Pro-Choice Colorado, said in a statement. 
  
 “Colorado has a long, bipartisan history of supporting reproductive rights. Judge Gorsuch does not reflect the will of our state or the constitutional rights of American women and we would oppose his nomination,” she said. 
  
 Term limit advocacy 
  
 One position that might give pause to the lawmakers voting on his nomination is his past advocacy on behalf of term limits. In 1992 he co-wrote a paper for the Cato Institute that argued term limits are “constitutionally permissible.” 
  
 “Recognizing that men are not angels, the Framers of the Constitution put in place a number of institutional checks designed to prevent abuse of the enormous powers they had vested in the legislative branch,” he wrote. “A term limit, we suggest, is simply an analogous procedure designed to advance much the same substantive end.” 
  
 That stance, however, didn’t stop then-U.S. Sen. Wayne Allard, R-Colo., from singing his praises in 2006 and noting Gorsuch’s past service as a Senate page. “It was here in the Senate that he made his foray into public service, and developed the passion for it that he exudes today,” Allard said. 
  
 Reputation in Colorado 
  
 In Colorado legal circles, Gorsuch, a Denver native who lives in Boulder and is married with children, has a reputation for writing easy-to-understand opinions and prowess on the slopes. 
  
 “I do know he’s a double-black diamond skier,” said former Colorado Supreme Court Justice Rebecca Love Kourlis. “I have that on good authority.” 
  
 Mark Hansen, a longtime friend and former partner with Gorsuch, said he has a great sense of humor. His friend’s clients were sometimes mighty, sometimes humble. 
  
 Gorsuch won the largest damages ever under the Sherman Anti-trust Act on behalf of a Memphis business, Hansen said in a phone interview Monday. 
  
 He told a story about when Gorsuch won a much smaller award on behalf of a small gravel pit owner who was cheated out of his fair share of mining royalties. During his closing remarks, Gorsuch told the jurors, ”Look. This is what they did to my poor client.” Gorsuch paused, reached into his pants pockets, and turned them out. 
  
 “For Neil, this fight over a few thousand dollars’ worth of dirt was the most important case ever tried,” Hansen has previously recounted. “For Neil, this wasn’t gravel, this was good versus evil.” A woman who had been a member of the jury ran up to Gorsuch afterward and shouted, “You’re Perry Mason.” 
  
 Hansen said that his friend has an inexhaustible store of Winston Churchill quotes. 
  
 Gorsuch comes from a well-known Colorado Republican family. His mother, the late Anne Gorsuch Burford, was Environmental Protection Agency director for the Reagan administration for 22 months. She slashed the agency’s budget and resigned under fire in 1983 during a scandal over mismanagement of a $1.6 billion program to clean up hazardous waste dumps. ||||| The shoulder of rural and scenic Lookout Road was lined Monday afternoon with news vans and national reporters hoping for a glimpse of a man on the speculated short list of those President Donald Trump may nominate for the Supreme Court vacancy. 
  
 Neil Gorsuch, the man they were waiting to see but never did, is a conservative jurist in the intellectual mold of the late Antonin Scalia, and he hails from deep-blue Boulder, of all places. 
  
 Along with William Pryor, of Alabama, and Thomas Hardiman, of Pennsylvania, Gorsuch, 49, is considered as good a bet as anyone to be Trump’s choice. The president announced on Twitter that he’ll reveal his nominee Tuesday at 6 p.m. Mountain time. 
  
 Under normal circumstances, Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge in Denver and adjunct law professor at the University of Colorado, would seem a winning pick for Trump. He is widely respected among his disproportionately liberal peers, colleagues and students in Boulder, who describe him as brilliant, thoughtful and charming. 
  
 “I found him to be a person of character and quality, intellectually curious and willing to debate all sides,” offered Jordan Henry, a CU law student and staunch liberal. “I think he’s dedicated to the truth, to justice, to the justice system. 
  
 “I may not always agree with him but I do think he gives all voices a fair hearing, and that’s all you can ask of a judge,” Henry said. 
  
 CU Law graduate Savannah Schaefer, who grew up with a Democrat mom and Republican dad, called Gorsch “a phenomenal guy and just brilliant. I think he’d be a gift, in some ways, if we got him nominated.” 
  
 “He acts and relates well to all people, and he did the same sort of thing in trial, where he was very good at making connections with jurors,” said attorney Mark Hansen, Gorsuch’s first boss, at the Washington, D.C., firm Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans and Figel. “He’s a regular person. It’s part of being a Westerner.” 
  
 Gorsuch is a Westerner in many other ways, too. 
  
 Though he holds degrees from Columbia, Harvard and Oxford, several colleagues commended him on Monday for being unpretentious and accessible — traits Colorado voters tend to prize. 
  
 Gorsuch lives in a 3,600-square-foot home in unincorporated Boulder County, just east of city limits in a gated subdivision with million-dollar homes and sweeping mountain views. 
  
 He, his wife, Louise — a British woman he met at Oxford — and their two daughters keep horses, chickens and goats on their 3-acre lot, and Gorsuch is known to spend his free time fly-fishing, hiking and rowing at Boulder Reservoir. 
  
 “He tried to get me to hike up some 14,000-foot mountain,” Hansen said. “It nearly killed me.” 
  
 In a recent speech, Gorsuch said he was skiing when he got the call telling him Scalia had died. Scalia’s death created the opening on the court that Gorsuch may fill. 
  
 If Gorsuch is chosen to succeed Scalia, and actually gets a Senate hearing, he’ll do so with the experience of having watched his late mother, Anne Gorsuch, being heard ahead of her confirmation as Ronald Reagan’s Environmental Protection Agency administrator. 
  
 Her nomination for that position was credited in large part to the influence of Joseph Coors, an heir to the Colorado beer fortune, on Reagan. 
  
 She was the first woman to hold that job, and her appointment forced a young Gorsuch to move from Colorado to Washington. He attended Georgetown Prep, a private high school for boys in the well-to-do suburb of Bethesda, Md. 
  
 His mother — who along with his father, David Gorsuch, graduated from CU Law in 1964 — was ultimately confirmed unanimously to her EPA post. 
  
 Twenty-five years later, George W. Bush appointed Gorsuch to the appeals court in 2006, and he was confirmed by a swift voice vote. 
  
 The path he’ll face if Trump nominates him now seems certain to be much bumpier than the confirmation process his mother faced, or those faced by former Supreme Court justices Anthony Kennedy and Byron White, both of whom Gorsuch clerked for. 
  
 But if the accounts of his students at ultra-liberal CU are to believed, his demeanor and reverence for the law will serve him well on that path — whether it dead-ends with a filibuster or leads to the kind of long career that can reasonably be expected of a judge not yet 50 years old and with a lifetime appointment. 
  
 “He mentored our entire class,” said Henry, his former pupil. “And he often encouraged us to learn how to win and lose graciously.” 
  
 Read more of this story at dailycamera.com |||||