Video games are extremely popular, with one report suggesting that as many as 1.2 billion people worldwide play them each year. We know a lot about how playing these games influences your health and even how you view the world, and now we've got some insight into how they affect your sex life. A new study shows men who play video games are less likely to suffer from premature ejaculation, but they also have a lower sex drive. 
  
 Read: Video Games Featuring Action Can Improve Cognitive Functions Like Attention And Brain Processing 
  
 For the study, published online in The Journal of Sexual Medicine, the team surveyed 396 men, asking them questions about their erectile function as well as their gaming habits and general lifestyle choices. The men were between the ages of 18 and 50. 
  
 While the researchers could not deduce from this study alone the reason for the correlation between men’s gaming habits and their sex lives, the team speculated that decreased sex drive in gamers may be related to overstimulation of dopamine, a pleasure hormone released both when a man plays video games and when he has an orgasm. The research hypothesized that producing large amounts of dopamine while playing video games may cause gamer guys to build a tolerance to the hormone, which may lead to less interest in sex. 
  
 "I think that video games might be similar to physical exercise in these regards: occasional use might have beneficial effects, but when some threshold between 'occasional use' and 'chronic abuse' is crossed, ill effects might occur," the study’s lead researcher Dr. Andrea Sansone told Broadly. "We are just scratching the surface of this new field of research: I hope that sooner or later we will be able to produce more solid results. In the meantime, I'll keep playing!" 
  
 Playing video games isn’t always bad though, as other research suggested that the habit may help to improve cognitive functions, such as attention and brain processing. One article published in the Sage Journals suggests that playing video games that require players to focus on fast-moving targets require players to make quick decisions, which in turn helps to strengthen their cognitive function. The study authors compared video games to “brain games,” games specially designed to help build and strengthen cognitive function. However, brain games themselves are a controversial topic. Although scientists acknowledge that certain activities, like doing crossword puzzles and Suduko, can help keep players mentally sharp, other games such as those created by the company Lumosity, have less solid scientific evidence to back their validity. 
  
 Source: Green CS, Seitz AR. The Impacts of Video Games on Cognition (and How the Government Can Guide the Industry). Sage Journals . 2017 
  
 See Also: 
  
 Brain Games For Adults Do Not Prevent Memory Loss, Cognitive Decline; 3 Proven Ways To Become Smarter In Old Age 
  
 Brain Games: 3 Video Games That Have Been Scientifically Proven To Benefit Your Brain ||||| In a post-Gamergate world, playing video games often comes with a bad connotation. There are, of course, plenty of men (and women!) who innocuously pretend to fight inter-galactic wars in their apartments, though gaming has become fused with a virulent anti-feminism and online trolling in certain circles. Much has been said about the impact of gaming culture on the politics on young men—but could gaming also have an effect on their sex lives? 
  
 A new study published in the Journal of Sexual Medicine has looked at the link between video games and sexual health in adult men. On one hand, the study's results seem fairly favorable for the gamer population: After surveying 396 Italian men, the researchers found that those who played video games were less likely to report suffering from premature ejaculation than non-gamers. 
  
 Read more: Why Portrayals of Moms In Video Games Are So Messed Up 
  
 But the study also found that gamers report having lower sexual desire. One reason this could occur is because video games are often stressful to play. "It can be assumed that 'video game stress' might lead to hyperprolactinemia, possibly resulting in loss of sex drive," the researchers write. 
  
 Both findings, notably, could be related. The researchers explain that video games supply a steady stream of dopamine, "the pleasure hormone" that is involved in stimulating an orgasm, to the player, and therefore gamers see a decreased receptor response. "This might cause tolerance in the ejaculatory reflex and a decreased interest in intercourse," the authors write. 
  
 Ultimately, the study's design can't determine what causes lower levels of premature ejaculation and sexual desire, and more research is needed to determine if video games are harmful to men's sexual health."Given that I have been an avid gamer all of my life, I surely hope otherwise!" the study's lead author, Andrea Sansone, told Broadly. 
  
 "I think that video games might be similar to physical exercise in these regards: occasional use might have beneficial effects, but when some threshold between 'occasional use' and 'chronic abuse' is crossed, ill effects might occur," he continued. "We are just scratching the surface of this new field of research: I hope that sooner or later we will be able to produce more solid results. In the meantime, I'll keep playing!" |||||