Ospreys' defeat in Leinster means the Scarlets still finish in fourth place.
Treviso were superb, and scored tries by Robert Barbieri, Manoa Vosawai, Luca Morisi and Christian Loamanu. Kris Burton converted three and kicked five penalties.
Scarlets scored four Owen Williams penalties and a Liam Williams try.
The Scarlets' fate was sealed in a nine-minute period early in the second half when Treviso were reduced to 13 men, but still managed to score 10 points without conceding themselves.
Media playback is not supported on this device
It was a send-off to forget for George North, Andy Fenby and Matthew Rees, who were all playing at Parc y Scarlets for the last time before joining other clubs.
But it started well for the Scarlets when another departing player, fly-half Owen Williams, kicked them into an early lead.
Treviso displayed some serious attacking intent of their own, a quick tapped penalty almost catching the Scarlets napping before the visitors took the lead in the seventh minute.
Barbieri snaffled a loose tap-back at a lineout, and was on hand to take a scoring pass from Antonio Pavanello after the second row's powerful run.
Williams was on target with a second penalty before more good play after another Scarlets lineout shambles enabled Burton to extend the Treviso lead with a penalty.
Centre Scott Williams and wing Andy Fenby made inroads for the Scarlets while for Treviso the back-row trio of Vosawai, Alessandro Zanni and Barbieri proved to be a real handful, with scrum-half Edoardo Gori profiting from their endeavour.
However, the only scores in the rest of the half were two more penalties for Williams and a second penalty for Burton as the Italians turned around 13-12 ahead.
Scarlets made a hash of the restart and then infringed under their own posts to give Burton an easy penalty.
Referee Dudley Phillips then gave the Scarlets a huge boost when he issued yellow cards to two Treviso players within a minute.
First Velario Bernabo saw yellow for killing the ball at the breakdown, then prop Jacobus Roux was given his marching orders for a scrum offence.
Incredibly, 13-man Treviso extended their lead, firstly with a penalty by Burton and then a mistake by replacement Rhys Priestland led to a break away which culminated in outstanding flanker Vosawi bursting over in the left hand corner.
Burton's successful conversion opened a 14-point lead as Treviso survived their period down to 13 men by scoring 10 points and conceding none.
And once they were back to full strength, Treviso continued to take advantage of the Scarlets' lack of form, with replacement Morisi crossing for their third unconverted try.
Wing Loamanu added to the Scarlets' agony with a fourth Treviso try.
Burton converted and then kicked a penalty from the halfway line awarded for a late challenge by Gareth Davies on Loamanu as he scored the try.
Scarlets finally found their way to the try-line in the last minute when full-back Liam Williams touched down.
But it was little compensation on a night when they were humiliated by the visitors.
Scarlets: L. Williams; North, J. Davies, S. Williams, Fenby; O. Williams, A. Davies; John, Owens, Lee, Earle, Synman, Shingler, Turnbull, Murphy.
Replacements: Maule for S. Williams (61), Priestland for O. Williams (48), G. Davies for A. Davies (55), Rees for Owens (55), Adriaanse for Lee (55), Ball for Synman (66).
Not Used: R. Jones, Timani.
Benetton Treviso: Williams; Nitoglia, Campagnaro, La Grange, Loamanu; K. Burton, Gori; Rizzo, Maistri, Roux, Pavanello, Minto, Vosawai, Zanni, Barbieri.
Replacements: Morisi for Campagnaro (62), Semenzato for Gori (70), De Marchi for Rizzo (62), Ceccato for Maistri (27), Bernabo for Zanni (41), Favaro for Barbieri (74).
Not Used: Rouyet, Ambrosini.
Att: 9,129
Referee: Dudley Phillips (IRFU)
Assistant Referees: Neil Hennessy, Tim Hayes (both WRU)
Citing Commissioner: Richard Gwynn (WRU)
TMO: Huw Lewis (WRU)