[There was a video here] 
  
 Donald Trump took time out of his hour-long QVC segment Tuesday to mock an NBC reporter who asked what parents should tell their kids about the language he uses. 
  
 According to TIME Magazine’s Zeke Miller, the question was posed by NBC News reporter Peter Alexander, who has had uncomfortable press conference moments with Trump before. 
  
 Trump—who’s used the word “pussy” to describe Ted Cruz, discussed his penis size on live TV, and confirmed he would sleep with his daughter if they weren’t related—had this to say: 
  
 Oh, you’re so politically correct. You’re so beautiful. Oh, look at you. Awwww. Aw, he’s so. Oh, I know. You’ve never heard a little bad, a little off, language. I know, you’re so perfect. Aren’t you perfect. Aren’t you just a perfect young man. Give me a break. You know what? It’s stuff like that that people in this country are tired of. It’s stuff like that. 
  
 It would be a step up for Alexander though—last time Trump didn’t even let him get the question out. ||||| All three networks stuck with Donald Trump's long press conference even as it veered into sales pitches for his own product lines. | AP Photo Trump infomercial captivates networks CNN, Fox, and MSNBC choose billionaire's rambling sales pitch over Clinton and Kasich speeches. 
  
 Millions of viewers tuned into to cable news networks during the prime 9 p.m. EST hour likely expecting to hear some candidate speeches. What they got, on CNN, Fox, and MSNBC, was one candidate talking for 45 minutes: Donald Trump. 
  
 All three networks stuck with Trump's long press conference even as it veered into sales pitches for his own product lines, despite the fact that Hillary Clinton, who had won the Mississippi primary in a landslide and was neck-and-neck in Michigan, spoke at the same time. They also mostly ignored Bernie Sanders' speech, which occurred in the 8 p.m. hour and John Kasich's speech, which happened during Trump's event. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 Only MSNBC ran Clinton’s speech in its entirety after Trump finished. And neither Sanders, Kasich, nor any of the other candidates got anything more than snippets of air time. 
  
 That sparked an instant flutter of complaints on Twitter, and revived an uncomfortable issue: Did the networks, knowing that the often-unpredictable and blustery Trump draws a bigger audience, go with the better draw rather than cover the full political landscape? 
  
 "C'mon networks! How is this fair broadcasting?" tweeted former Michigan governor and Clinton surrogate Jennifer Granholm. 
  
 "I hope the Trump speech lasts another 4 hours and I hope the Cable networks will carry it all, because there is obviously no news judgment," wrote former NPR political editor Ken Rudin. 
  
 The networks’ decision was all the more noteworthy because it validated a strategic decision by the Trump campaign to forgo the usual primary-night thank yous in favor of a lengthy, presidential-style press conference — a tactic he’s used on the two previous election nights. 
  
 Forty five minutes of uninterrupted TV time on the three cable news networks is the equivalent of millions of dollars in free media for a campaign — a stunning amount of TV time. 
  
 "[I] do think Hillary should have gotten attention," said Frank Sesno, former CNN Washington Bureau Chief and current director of the George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs. "She is running for president too, in case anyone failed to notice. It just shows that Donald Trump continues to enthrall and dominate attention, headlines and airtime." 
  
 "Whether networks chose to split their screens or play the speeches sequentially, it is odd political news judgment to cover one leading candidate and not the other if that's really what happened," he added. 
  
 Mo Elleithee, director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics, put it this way: "Trump is catnip to the networks, and they stuck with his rambling, incoherent infomercial. That's dangerous for his opponents. How do you ensure that your substantive case breaks through when you're running against the king of entertainment politics?" 
  
 Added Elleithee, a former communications director for the Democratic National Committee: "I think it shows that Democrats are going to face the same challenge in the fall that Republicans did in the primaries.” 
  
 What struck many critics like Elleithee was that Trump wasn’t even making much news. He was mostly just riffing. He took questions from reporters but also veered into long digressions touting his wines, steaks, golf courses, and even his water. 
  
 It was a typically colorful and unpredictable Trump event. But as Business Insider columnist Josh Barro noted on Twitter, Trump’s penchant for making amusing or contentious statements has given him a higher news (read: ratings) value. 
  
 "Trump is taking questions. Clinton will give the same speech she always does. Trump event has higher news value," he wrote. 
  
 And in the valuable primetime hours, if a cable network dropped Trump during that raucous press conference to go to a Clinton stump speech, they likely would've lost viewers as well. 
  
 Network spokespeople did not respond to emailed questions on Tuesday night. But on Twitter, CNNMoney and CNNPolitics Vice President Ed O’Keefe suggested that Clinton could have waited until Trump was finished; he speculated that she may have wanted to be pre-empted, given the unexpectedly close race in Michigan, which she ultimately lost. 
  
 "Might be her preference given margin in #MichiganPrimary," O'Keefe tweeted in response to a tweet about the networks skipping Clinton. 
  
 CNN and Fox News eventually played clips of Clinton's speech later on Tuesday night. 
  
 But it's still notable that none of the three cable networks chose even to mention that Clinton was speaking before cutting back to Trump. As Trump himself has noted, the attention he gets from the networks is likely the equivalent of millions in free airtime. 
  
 "It's not democracy. It's television," tweeted Time Washington bureau chief Michael Scherer, while also questioning why the Clinton campaign had her go out while Trump was still on. ||||| Before he entered the lucrative field of presidential politics, Donald Trump, the successful real estate mogul and television personality, had a number of failed businesses including “Trump Steaks.” 
  
 In the typically bombastic ad that’s been floating around, the Trumpster proclaims his eponymous steaks, which were sold exclusively, and inexplicably, at the Sharper Image and by mail-order from QVC, to be “the world’s greatest steaks.” 
  
 What nobody but the Kasich campaign seems to have noticed is that, while they’ve been discontinued, you can still read the customer reviews of Trump Steaks online at QVC.com. 
  
 And they are terrible. 
  
 Trump is a showman who knows that you don’t sell the steak. You sell the sizzle. Which is why, in Trumpian lingo, everything is “the best,” “world-class,” or “five star.” Yet, when it comes to the meat bearing his name, one-star reviews abound. Of the nearly 50 reviews I read of Trump’s various steak, burger, and hotdog “collections,” which ranged in price from $199 to $999, more than 50 percent were highly negative 1-2 star reviews. While some loved the steaks, the vitriol and disgust from many of those who ordered the highly-touted home shopping network meat was striking. As one reviewer damningly put it, the meat had “no redeeming qualities.” 
  
 It seems the only delicious thing about Trump Steaks are the reviews. Behold. 
  
 “Dreadful pieces of meat.” 
  
 Does “greasy and tasteless” remind you of anyone? 
  
 “The shrinkage is astonishing!” 
  
 The steaks’ greasiness was a common theme. 
  
 As was the observation that the “World’s Greatest Steaks” are not very good. 
  
 Hear that, haters? Tasteless AND mealy. 
  
 Introducing Trump’s new campaign slogan: “Very little meat, too much marble.” 
  
 The hotdogs didn’t get off easy either. 
  
 Here it should be noted that “Never again” is a phrase usually reserved for the Holocaust. 
  
 This discerning mail-order meat eater could hardly contain his disdain. 
  
 So where can you get your mittens on one of these disgusting boxes of meat? You can’t. Some time after their introduction in 2007 Trump Steaks were quietly discontinued. ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 / Updated By Corky Siemaszko 
  
 Donald Trump’s business savvy came under fire last week — and the Republican presidential front-runner was none too pleased. 
  
 Trump exploded when Mitt Romney, in a scathing anti-Trump speech in Utah, declared: "A business genius he is not." 
  
 The former GOP nominee ticked off a list of Trump's corporate misadventures: Trump University, Trump Airlines, Trump Vodka, Trump Magazine, Trump Steaks. 
  
 Trump fired back, calling Romney a "choke artist" and a "failed candidate," and claimed Romney "begged" for Trump's endorsement in 2012. 
  
 "I could have said, 'Mitt drop to your knees,' and he would have dropped to his knees," Trump said. 
  
 Real estate mogul and TV star Donald Trump, left, listens as Michael Sexton introduces him to announce the establishment of Trump University at a press conference in New York, on May 23, 2005. Bebeto Matthews / AP 
  
 Trump, who claims to be worth $10 billion and whose fortune is estimated by Forbes at $4.1 billion, also appeared stung when Florida Sen. Marco Rubio on the campaign trail called him a "con man" with a mixed track record of business success. 
  
 But after notching victories in Michigan and Mississippi on Tuesday, Trump trotted out some "Trump Steaks," held a glossy copy of a Trump Magazine that he claimed to have just looked at, and vowed to reopen Trump University "after we win the lawsuit." 
  
 Trump has had numerous business successes, like Trump Tower, 40 Wall Street and "The Apprentice." But not every Trump venture turned to gold — and the businesses Romney cited were notorious misfires. 
  
 Trump University was an online college launched in 2005 that offered to teach the mogul’s real estate and entrepreneurship strategies, and charged fees ranging from $1,500 to $35,000. But it was never accredited. 
  
 In 2013, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued, claiming the university was a scam operation that defrauded around 600 students out of thousands of dollars. 
  
 Trump, via his lawyer Michael D. Cohen, denied defrauding anybody and claimed the school had a 98 percent approval rating. He filed a complaint alleging that the AG’s office was looking for a campaign contribution. 
  
 On the campaign trail, Trump has also claimed that Trump U got an A rating from the Better Business Bureau. The BBB on Tuesday said the school "does not currently have an A rating." 
  
 "The BB Business Review for this company has continually been 'No Rating' since September 2015," the company said in a statement. "Prior to that, it fluctuated between D- and A+." 
  
 When Trump U was running, the BBB "received multiple customer complaints about this business. These complaints affected the Trump University BBB rating, which was as low as D- in 2010." 
  
 But after 2013, no new complaints were reported as "the company appeared to be winding down." 
  
 "As a result, over time, Trump University’s BBB rating went to an A in July 2014 and then to an A+ in January 2015," the BBB said. 
  
 Recently, Trump criticized a California judge presiding over another lawsuit against Trump U — this one a federal class-action lawsuit — as “very hostile," and added: “I believe he happens to be Spanish, which is fine.” 
  
 In 2013, Trump countersued the lead plaintiff in the California lawsuit, Tarla Makaeff, for defamation. An appeals court dismissed Trump’s challenge. But the Associated Press reported Wednesday that Makaeff has asked a judge to withdraw from the suit because Trump and his lawyer have put her "through the wringer." 
  
 Records show Trump is also currently being sued by a Long Island man named Gregory Ryan who claimed in court papers filed in Suffolk County Supreme Court that he was the victim of a $25,000 "ripoff." 
  
 Real estate mogul Donald Trump, right, shakes hands with Texas Air Corp. Chairman Frank Lorenzo during a joint news conference on Wednesday, Oct. 13, 1988 at the Plaza Hotel in New York. AP 
  
 Trump Airlines was Trump's attempt to make money by offering a luxury shuttle service to Washington and Boston from New York City. 
  
 Back in 1989, Trump pounced at the chance to buy the troubled Eastern Air Lines shuttle service for $365 million. He put the Trump name on the planes, dressed them up inside — and waited for business to boom. It didn't. 
  
 But the business took on too much debt and eventually defaulted. It was sold to USAir. 
  
 Trump Vodka was the teetotaling Trump’s attempt to break into the lucrative liquor market. Sold in a skyscraper-shaped bottle, it had a gold-encrusted letter 'T' on all its four sides and the slogan “Success Distilled.” 
  
 Donald Trump holds a bottle of his new line of vodka as he arrives for the Trump Vodka launch party by Drinks America hosted by Donald J. Trump at Les Deux in the Hollywood section of Los Angeles, on Jan. 17, 2007. AP 
  
 After it launched in 2006, Trump predicted the T&T (Trump and tonic) would be the most popular drink in America. Two years later, Trump Vodka was history. 
  
 Trump Steaks was launched in 2007 in partnership with retailer Sharper Image and QVC to "deliver a taste of Donald Trump’s luxurious lifestyle.” By 2014, this business venture was dead. But the reviews — the good ones and the bad ones — live on at QVC.com. 
  
 Trump Magazine made its debut in 2007 and was the mogul's foray into what detractors derided as "wealth porn." The glossy pages featured yacht reviews, stories about private jet makeover, ads for jewel-encrusted watches, and lots of pictures of Trump. By 2009, the recession was in full swing and Trump's magazine as a quarterly sold at newsstands was no more. 
  
 Trump Mortgage was also a victim of bad timing — and the recession. “I think it’s a great time to start a mortgage company,” Trump told CNBC in 2006. “The real estate market is going to be very strong for a long time to come.” 
  
 Two years later, the housing market collapsed — and so did Trump Mortgage LLC. ||||| 3 5 20 20 
  
 Mmmmm Mmmmmmm Good Those three words sum up the Trump Steakburgers. OK, Mmmmm isn't a real word but for these it should be. We don't eat much red meat but make an exception for Trump Steakburgers. . and, we love hamburgrs. Oops, excuse me, Steakburgrs. Sure they may shrink some,or they may not, depending on how you prepare them but in the oven, on a griddle or in the BBQ the flavor and texture is outstanding. 02-14-08 
  
 Tasty & Delicious These are excellent! They're not greasy. Grease is fat...and these are not fatty. They are juicy (not the same thing as greasy!), tender & flavorful. I am a burger lover & very hard to please. Most steakburgers are rubbery & dry (I've had them all). These are among the best I've ever had. I plan to buy them again and again. 11-17-07 
  
 Worst Burger EVER!! Nothing but grease, and shrinkage is astonishing! Bought both steaks and burgers, would not purchase again. No redeeming qualities. 11-02-07 
  
 Trump Finally Beats out KC I have to tell you that so far, I have been disappointed on time after another with the Trump Steak line, but the burgers beat out the rest! I am a KC Steaks fan, alas this one goes to the Donald!!! Folks, these burgers are absolutely better than any I have had, even Ruth's Chris are only comparable. 10-06-07 
  
 Hard pieces in these My husband loves these, but I bit on 5 hard pieces of something when I ate one of these burgers - 10-05-07 
  
 The best ever I have tried many different types of burgers. From the meat purchased at the store to the finest restaurants. This product is outstanding it is tender melt in our mouth. It has no fat or rubber taste. I would say it is the best over Kansas City. Which I think is good but not as good. 09-02-07 
  
 Best flavor We have tried Trump Steakburgers and Kansas City Steakburgers. Trump burgers had a much better flavor by far and less shrinkage. My husband thawed 5 Trump burgers and made his famous meatloaf and it was the best tasting meatloaf ever. The Kansas burgers left a fatty taste in the mouth somehow. I would say the flavor was the issue - better by Trump & for our taste worth the extra money. Just our opinion. 08-19-07 
  
 Very tasty burgers These steakburgers are delicious. No shrinkage at all. Will definitely reorder. You need some fat in the meat for flavor. 07-27-07 
  
 Buy Kanas City Burgers!! I was VERY disappointed with these burgers!! They are really greasy, have no flavor, over-priced and just gross!! Buy Kanas City Steak products instead!! 07-24-07 
  
 Not at all satisfied with the quality of this prod These burgers were tastless loaded with fat and very messsy to clean up after. MR. Trump stated on the air that they were low in fat and would be helpful to anyone who is trying to watch their weight. This just is not the case they are so full of fat that the color of these burgers are white with a little pink. I am no stranger to Angus beef and high guality lean cuts of meat-----having abutcher in the family. I believe his burgers are not what they say they are. 07-23-07 
  
 never again i purchased the trump steak burgers for the first time. they are extreemly greasy. i have had kansas city and they above and beyond this product. please delete it from your offerings. 07-19-07 |||||