Portugal manager Fernando Santos has revealed his desire to sew up qualification for Euro 2016 before their return trip to face Serbia in a tricky tie in Belgrade on the final day of qualifying. Santos' side face Serbia at Lisbon's Estadio da Luz on Sunday, hoping that star man and captain Cristiano Ronaldo can help open up a gap on one of their rivals for a place at the finals in France next summer. With a win offering the Portuguese a chance to leapfrog Denmark at the top of the group, Santos wants to take what he sees as a key step towards sealing qualification. Cristiano Ronaldo (left) and Fernando Santos (right) talk ahead of Portugal's Euro 2016 qualifier on Sunday . Santos has made it clear that the game against Serbia is very important to their qualification hopes . Ronaldo took the chance to show off during training as Portugal went through their paces on Saturday . Speaking after training, Santos said: 'The game is not decisive but it is very important. We depend only on ourselves, and if we win we get to depend only of us in an even stronger way. In this sense it is a very important game. 'The desire is to go to Belgrade (when they face Serbia on October 11) with qualification from the group already guaranteed.' Ronaldo has scored both of low-scoring Portugal's two goals in qualifying so far, securing late wins over Denmark and Armenia after a shock opening-fixture defeat by Albania. The Ballon d'Or winner has come under some criticism for his Real Madrid performances of late but looked full of confidence out on the pitch as his side went through their final preparations for Sunday's game. The Portuguese talisman looks away as he prepares to fire a pass away from the goalmouth . Ronaldo pulls off a flick as some of his team-mates watch on at the Antonio Coimbra da Mota stadium . Keeping an eye on the ball, Ronaldo prepares to pull off another trick in preparation for facing Serbia . Despite Serbia's poor record in qualifying so far - taking just one point from three games - they do boast a number of stars from Europe's top divisions, including Chelsea pair Nemanja Matic and Branislav Ivanovic as well as Liverpool winger Lazar Markovic. However, Santos said that he would not be preparing his players to give any 'special attention' to any opposition players. 'There will be no special care for anyone,' he said. 'Portugal respects all of their players, Matic, (Zoran) Tosic, Markovic, I won't go on as I would have to name them all. 'As I told the players in this morning's meeting, the important thing is for us to be compact and dynamic.' Manchester United's Nani, who is spending the season on loan at Sporting Lisbon, joined in with the tricks . Serbia trained at the Estadio da Luz on Saturday as they looked to revive their qualification hopes . The current state of play in Group I, showing how Portugal can top the group with victory over Serbia .