THREE have been charged with the murder of child killer David Gaut - as it was revealed he was beaten so badly he couldn't be identified at first. 
  
 David Gaut, 54, had recently been released after he was caged for life in July 1985 for the murder and torture of a 17-month-old boy just 11 miles away. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Police at the scene of the murder in New Tredegar, near Caerphilly, South Wales, today 
  
 Gwent Police confirmed last night that three men have been charged with murder. 
  
 A 47-year-old man, 23-year-old man and 51-year-old man, all from the New Tredegar area are due to appear in Newport Magistrates’ Court today. 
  
 A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "We got to know him quite well since he'd moved in. 
  
 "He used to go on about how he had been in prison for 33 years. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Forensic officers scour the scene this afternoon 
  
 "He told us he had shot a soldier but he told us he had been set up. 
  
 "We were in his flat and saw his middle name was Tracy on the letters he had. 
  
 "We thought that was unusual so I googled him to see if I could find out what he had done. 
  
 "That's when we saw the details of what he did to the baby boy. We couldn't believe it. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Police officers comb for clues outside the home of murdered child killer David Gaut 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Chi Ming Shek, known as Marky, who was murdered in 1985 
  
 MEDIA WALES 9 Jane Pickthall, whose boyfriend Gaut murdered her baby daughter, is pictured outside Cardiff Crown Court in 1985 
  
 "It's disgusting. I can't believe we have been living next door to that." 
  
 Three men - including two near neighbours - have been arrested on suspicion of his murder. 
  
 Gaut was rehoused in the small ground floor flat by Caerphilly council. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 A forensic officer at the scene of the murder in South Wales 
  
 Another neighbour said: "The flat where it happened is owned by the council, they're always moving people in and out of them. 
  
 "Who wants to live next door to a child killer or a paedo?" 
  
 The flat and three neighbouring properties were sealed off as cops combed the area for clues. 
  
 Gaut, then 21, was jailed for life in July 1985 for the murder and torture of a 17-month old boy just 11 miles away in Caerphilly. 
  
 The beast was babysitting his girlfriend's son Chi Ming Shek - known as Marky Pickthall - when he battered, kicked and burned the sole of the child's foot. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Police have sealed off the property in South Wales after they discovered Gaut's body on Saturday 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Gaut was rehoused in the small ground floor flat in Long Row by Caerphilly council 
  
 The baby's mum Jane Pickthall, then 23, had been out drinking and left Gaut to look after her two young children. 
  
 She arrived home in Caerphilly and had sex with Gaut. 
  
 But the next day she found her son's dead body under a chest of drawers in his bedroom. 
  
 A murder trial at Cardiff Crown Court heard Gaut tried to make the death look accidental. 
  
 The baby died of multiple injuries including a broken arm, injured liver and spleen and a fractured skull. 
  
 A judge described the murder as "the worst crime in the land". 
  
 Sentencing, Mr Justice Caldfield said: "The person murdered was a defenceless little baby and on the fury's finding you not only murdered that child but also tortured him." 
  
 Police say Gaut's next of kin has been informed and enquiries are continuing. 
  
 The child killer's body was discovered around 3pm on Saturday. 
  
 Wales News Service 9 Forensics enter Gaut's flat to investigate the murder 
  
 Most read in news BANGED UP ABROAD Brit mum banged up in Dubai jail after drinking wine on plane from Gatwick STAR WARS US Space Force to start in TWO YEARS to secure 'extraterrestrial dominance' DIRTY MONEY May urged to match US sanctions over Salisbury and block ‘corrupt’ Russian cash ‘EXTREME FORCE’ Trigger happy cop Tasers 11-year-old girl accused of shoplifting 'THINK OF MY GIRLS' YouTube star begs fans to keep quiet after seedy teen girl texts emerge BIG BABIES Sumo wrestlers compete to make babies cry in bizarre Japanese ritual Nakizumo 
  
 A Gwent Police spokesman said: "The cause of death has yet to be established and will be determined following a post mortem examination." 
  
 A spokesman for Caerphilly council said: "We can confirm it is a council property and we are helping police with their inquiries. 
  
 "As it is an on-going inquiry it would not be appropriate to comment further." 
  
 We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours ||||| Three men are to appear in court on Thursday charged with the murder of a convicted baby killer. 
  
 David Gaut, previously known as Tracy David Gaut, was found dead in a property in Long Row, in the Elliots Town area of New Tredegar, Caerphilly, on Saturday afternoon. 
  
 The 54-year-old had been jailed for life at Cardiff Crown Court for the murder of 17-month-old toddler Chi Ming Shek in February 1985. 
  
 It is reported that he had been released from prison last year and had recently moved to New Tredegar. 
  
 Gwent Police said men aged 47, 23 and 51 - all from the New Tredegar area - have been charged with Gaut's murder. 
  
 All three are due to appear at Newport Magistrates' Court on Thursday. ||||| Three men have appeared in court accused of the murder of child killer David Gault. 
  
 Darren Evesham, 47, Ieuan Harley, 23, and David Osbourne, 51, were remanded in custody after appearing at Newport Magistrates’ Court this morning, Thursday, August 9. 
  
 Gaut, 54, was found dead at his flat on Long Row in New Tredegar on Saturday, August 4. 
  
 A murder investigation was launched by Gwent Police and three men were arrested. 
  
 All three men – Evesham, of Powell’s Terrace, New Tredegar, Harley, of no fixed abode, and Osbourne, of Long Row, New Tredegar – were accused of the same charge. Dressed in t-shirts, the men spoke only to confirm their names and addresses during the short hearing. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Chair of the bench Jennifer Hutchinson said all three men will remain in custody before appearing at Newport Crown Court on August 13. 
  
 • David Gaut, then 21, was jailed for life in July 1985 for the murder and torture of a 17-month-old boy just 11 miles from New Tredegar. 
  
 Gaut was babysitting his girlfriend’s son Chi Ming Shek – known as Marky – when he battered, kicked, and burned the sole of the child’s foot. 
  
 The baby’s mum Jane Pickthall, then 23, had been out drinking and left Gaut to look after her two young children. 
  
 She arrived home in Caerphilly and made love to Gaut – but the next day she found her son’s dead body under a chest of drawers. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 A murder trial at Cardiff Crown Court heard Gaut tried to make the death look accidental. 
  
 Unemployed Gaut told police Marky had got out of the cot and claimed he smacked the tot’s bottom but he fell down the stairs. 
  
 He said he gave Marky mouth to mouth and put him back in the cot – because he “looked all right.” 
  
 The baby died of multiple injuries including a broken arm, injured liver and spleen and a fractured skull. 
  
 Gaut was convicted of murder and jailed for life in July 1985 
  
 Police had originally refused to confirm or deny whether the murder victim was the same man, but his identity has since been confirmed by them. |||||