The Borussia Dortmund striker scored a 38th-minute penalty to secure his side's second 1-1 draw in Group A.
Burkina Faso took the lead when Prejuce Nakoulma latched on to a long ball and held off two players to score.
Herve Koffi tipped Denis Bouanga's drive onto the bar early on and denied him again with his legs on 81 minutes.
Those saves made up for the Burkina Faso goalkeeper's error when he brought down Aubameyang for the penalty.
Bouanga will look back at the late chance as an opportunity he should have taken, having latched on to Aubameyang's downward header in the box only to direct his shot too close to Koffi.
There was still time for Bouanga to almost atone for the miss and his excellent delivery into the penalty area deserved better than to be headed wide by an unmarked Kevyn Aboue Angoue.
Burkina Faso's clearest chance was created by Alain Traore, who cut into the box between two defenders and sent a shot towards the far corner only to see it well saved by Didier Ovono.
All three games so far in Group A have been drawn, with Cameroon and Guinea-Bissau to play later on Wednesday.
Burkina Faso's chances of progress appear to be higher, given they will face rank outsiders and debutants Guinea-Bissau on Sunday.
But they could well be without key man Jonathan Pitroipa, who was stretchered off after only 11 minutes against Gabon.
Match ends, Gabon 1, Burkina Faso 1.
Second Half ends, Gabon 1, Burkina Faso 1.
Denis Bouanga (Gabon) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Yacouba Coulibaly (Burkina Faso).
Serge Kevyn Aboue Angoue (Gabon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Patrick Arnaud Malo (Burkina Faso).
Foul by Malick Evouna (Gabon).
Charles Kaboré (Burkina Faso) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Denis Bouanga (Gabon).
Prejuce Nakoulma (Burkina Faso) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Serge Kevyn Aboue Angoue (Gabon) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top left corner. Assisted by Denis Bouanga with a cross.
Aaron Appindangoyé (Gabon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Banou Diawara (Burkina Faso).
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Banou Diawara (Burkina Faso) because of an injury.
Foul by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Gabon).
Patrick Arnaud Malo (Burkina Faso) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Kouakou Herve Koffi (Burkina Faso) because of an injury.
Corner,  Gabon. Conceded by Kouakou Herve Koffi.
Attempt saved. Denis Bouanga (Gabon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang with a headed pass.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Yacouba Coulibaly (Burkina Faso) because of an injury.
Attempt missed. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (Gabon) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Denis Bouanga.
Serge Junior Martinsson-Ngouali (Gabon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Bakary Bouba Saré (Burkina Faso).
Substitution, Burkina Faso. Bakary Bouba Saré replaces Alain Traoré.
Attempt blocked. Serge Kevyn Aboue Angoue (Gabon) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Didier Ndong.
Substitution, Gabon. Serge Kevyn Aboue Angoue replaces Andre Biyogo Poko because of an injury.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Andre Biyogo Poko (Gabon) because of an injury.
Foul by Andre Biyogo Poko (Gabon).
Yacouba Coulibaly (Burkina Faso) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Gabon. Conceded by Issoufou Dayo.
Serge Junior Martinsson-Ngouali (Gabon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Abdou Traoré (Burkina Faso).
Hand ball by Yacouba Coulibaly (Burkina Faso).
Foul by Andre Biyogo Poko (Gabon).
Yacouba Coulibaly (Burkina Faso) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Offside, Gabon. Benjamin Ze Ondo tries a through ball, but Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is caught offside.