This figure could rise further as police continue their investigation, Assistant Chief Constable of Sussex Police Steve Barry added.
The vintage jet plummeted into traffic on the A27 on Saturday after attempting a loop manoeuvre.
Some victims of the accident have been named by their families.
The number of deaths was initially given as seven, but ACC Barry said it was now "highly likely" that 11 had died.
Victims who have been named by their families include Matt Jones, 24, and Worthing United FC footballer Matthew Grimstone, 23.
Another Worthing United footballer, Jacob Schilt, 23, is also believed to be among the victims, his club said.
In a statement, Worthing United FC said Mr Grimstone was their first team goalkeeper and was quiet and reserved, but with a "huge talent and a brilliant player with huge potential".
Mr Schilt was a "tenacious midfielder, a skilful player, with an eye for goal", the club said.
Sussex Police has said no-one on the airfield was injured but that the pilot - named locally as former RAF pilot Andy Hill - remained in a critical condition in hospital. He was pulled from the burning wreckage.
The status of the jet's ejector seats was yet to be determined, ACC Barry said.
He said the removal of victims' bodies was likely to continue throughout Monday. It was "quite possible" more victims would be discovered, he added.
ACC Barry said a crane would be brought in to lift the wreckage of the aircraft on Monday.
The large crash site remains a hazardous area, with fuel still on the plane.
In a video released by Sussex Police, ACC Barry later described the crash as "devastating".
He said: "I've certainly not seen anything like this in my career in terms of the scale, the tragedy and the impact that this is going to have on the local community.
"We are entering the recovery phase of the operation and as we do that we are likely to uncover more fatalities but we are putting in a huge amount of effort in supporting the families and helping them to understand what has happened."
He appealed to drivers to avoid the area, saying the A27, which was badly damaged during the crash, would be closed for at least another two days.
The crash happened at 13:20 BST on Saturday as the Hawker Hunter jet came out of a loop manoeuvre.
It then smashed into the A27, sending a fireball across the carriageway.
Neil McCarthy, a friend of pilot Andy Hill, told the BBC News Channel that the loop manoeuvre was regarded as "one of the most dangerous" to attempt.
He said that "if you don't have the right entry speed, the right pull back on the stick, the G-force, the right gate height at the top of the loop manoeuvre, it can go wrong pretty quick".
The Air Accidents Investigation Branch is also continuing to investigate the scene alongside the police, who have urged people to think twice before posting "extremely graphic" images of the crash online.