Any mention of an Iranian nuclear weapon is taboo in the Islamic Republic, which insists that its nuclear programme is entirely for peaceful, civil purposes. So it is remarkable, to say the least, that an article has appeared on the Gerdab website, run by Iran's Revolutionary Guards, anticipating the day after Iran's first test of a nuclear warhead. Here is a translation of the text: 
  
 The day after Iran's first nuclear test is a normal day. 
  
 The day after Islamic Republic of Iran's first nuclear test will be an ordinary day for us Iranians but in the eyes of some of us there will be a new sparkle. 
  
 It's a good day. It's seven in the morning. The sun is not fully up yet but everywhere is bright. In the northern hemisphere many countries are beginning the day... 
  
 The day before, probably in central deserts of Iran, where once Americans and some other Western countries wanted to bury their nuclear waste, an underground nuclear explosion has taken place. The strength of the explosion was not so great as to cause severe damage to the region nor so weak that Iranian scientists face any problems in running their tests. 
  
 Today is a normal day like any other. Like 90% of the year, there is news about Iran, and these are the headlines which can be seen on foreign news sites: 
  
 Reuters: Iran detonated its nuclear bomb 
  
 CNN: Iran detonated nuclear bomb 
  
 Al-Jazeera: The second Islamic nuclear bomb was tested 
  
 Al-Arabia: The Shia nuclear bomb was tested 
  
 Yahoo! News: Nuclear explosion in Iran 
  
 Jerusalem Post: Mullahs obtained nuclear weapon 
  
 Washington Post: Nuclear explosion in Iran, Shock and despair in Tel Aviv 
  
 Meanwhile, the domestic media will offer many congratulations to the Hidden Imam and the Supreme Leader: 
  
 Keyhan: Iran's first nuclear bomb was tested 
  
 Jomhoori-e-eslami: Iran successfully carried out a nuclear test 
  
 Iran: By order of the president, Iran's 100% homemade nuclear bomb was tested 
  
 Ettela'at: Iran's much anticipated nuclear bomb exploded 
  
 This strange, hypothetical, article, which first appeared on April 24, hammers home again and again the message that an Iranian nuclear test will not lead to disaster. On the contrary, life will go as before except that Iranians will feel better about themselves. 
  
 The news commotion will not knock life in Iran off balance. Civil servants will punch in at work on time as always, while some will be late as always. ...The day after the Islamic Republic of Iran's first nuclear test will be an ordinary day for us Iranians but in the eyes of some of us there will be a new sparkle. A sparkle of national pride and strength. 
  
 This has the look of a kite being flown, but for whom? It could be intended to get Iranians used to the idea of a nuclear test, and less fearful of international reaction. It could be a gesture of defiance to the world by hardline elements - according to independent experts, Gerdab is run by the Revolutionary Guards' cyber defence command, which is presumably still smarting from the Stuxnet attack. Opposition websites describe it as an enforcement tool for the regime, identifying and threatening independent bloggers inside Iran. 
  
 The article comes during a period when Tehran's official stance is particularly defiant and assertive, announcing today that it will triple its production of 20% enriched uranium and shift it to the underground Fordow site, near Qom. 
  
 Meir Javedanfar, an Iranian-Israeli expert on the Tehran regime currently lecturing in Colombia, described the Gerdab article as "unbelievable". ||||| An article praising the idea of Iran testing a nuclear bomb on a Revolutionary Guard website is raising alarms in western intelligence circles, which interpret it as evidence of strong backing in the Islamic Republic for such a move. 
  
 Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad waves to the media, as he arrives for his press conference, in Tehran, Iran, Tuesday, June 7, 2011. Ahmadinejad says the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency chief has discredited... (Associated Press) 
  
 Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad speaks with media, during his press conference in Tehran, Iran, Tuesday, June 7, 2011. Ahmadinejad says the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency chief has discredited the... (Associated Press) 
  
 Entitled "The Day After the First Iranian Nuclear Test _ a Normal Day," the article coincides with other public or suspected activities that the United States and its allies see as indications that Tehran wants to possess atomic arms. 
  
 "The day after the first Iranian nuclear test for us Iranians will be an ordinary day, but in the eyes of many of us, it will have a new shine, from the power and dignity of the nation," says the article published on the Gerdab site run by the Revolutionary Guard. 
  
 A translation that was vetted by The Associated Press was provided by a Western official who asked for anonymity because of the nature of his information. 
  
 Iran denies nuclear weapons intentions _ while moving consistently closer to such a capacity. 
  
 An International Atomic Energy Agency report last month listed "high-voltage firing and instrumentation for explosives testing over long distances and possibly underground" as one of seven "areas of concern" that Iran may be conducting clandestine nuclear weapons work. 
  
 Adding to concerns Wednesday, the country's nuclear chief announced that his country will soon install more advanced equipment at a fortified underground site to allow it to enrich uranium faster and to higher levels. 
  
 Iran says it wants to enrich only to power a future network of reactors. But over the past two years it has started to enrich uranium to a level higher than what is needed for nuclear fuel and closer to the grade used to make the fissile core of nuclear warheads. 
  
 On Wednesday, Vice President and nuclear head Fereidoun Abbasi announced Iran would increase its capacity to enrich to that higher level _ near 20 percent _ by installing more efficient centrifuges and would triple the output of the higher grade material. 
  
 The move comes despite four rounds of U.N. Security Council sanctions over Tehran's refusal to halt enrichment. 
  
 Abbasi said that the new generation centrifuges would be set up at the Fordo site near the holy city of Qom in central Iran. 
  
 Built next to a military complex to protect it in case of an attack, Fordo was long kept secret and was only acknowledged by Iran shortly before Western intelligence agencies went public with it in September 2009. The area is heavily protected by the powerful Revolutionary Guard. 
  
 Low-enriched uranium _ at around 3.5 percent _ can be used to fuel a reactor to generate electricity. But if uranium is further enriched to around 90 percent purity, it can be used to develop a nuclear warhead _ and enriching to 90 percent can be done much more quickly from near 20 percent than from low-enriched material. 
  
 Iran has been producing low-enriched uranium for years and began higher enrichment in February 2010, asserting it needs the higher grade material to produce fuel for a Tehran reactor that makes medical radioisotopes needed for cancer patients. 
  
 David Albright, whose Institute for Science and International Security tracks suspected proliferators, said it was unrealistic for Tehran to accelerate production of 20-percent uranium to the degree stated by Abbasi for that one research reactor. 
  
 "It doesn't make any sense for civil research purposes," he said. "They are not going to build for or five research reactors." 
  
 The article on the website _ along with Wednesday's announcement on enrichment and the IAEA suspicions about secret experiments _ strengthens concerns that "they are moving toward nuclear weapons," he said. 
  
 The article ends with an Arabic quote from the Quaran: "And prepare against them whatever you are able of power and of steeds of war by which you may terrify the enemy of Allah and your enemy." 
  
 The official said that the article was first posted in April. The Farsi version was still on the website late Wednesday. 
  
 Albright speculated that its publication reflected that at least some powerful Revolutionary Guard factions supported such a test, even if the article did not express the position of the Iranian leadership as a whole. 
  
 "This could be reflecting an internal debate," he said. 
  
 ___ 
  
 George Jahn is at http://twitter.com/georgejahn 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writer Ali Akbar Dareini contributed from Tehran. |||||