In today's edition of Tweet Beat, former LiLo luvah Samantha Ronson implores Michael Lohan to put a cap on it, Boy George tells us what tickles his fancy, and Russell Simmons acts as Twitter's bikram yoga instructor. 
  
 Image via Getty ||||| Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) 
  
 It’s my party and I’ll cry if I want to! 
  
 Lindsay Lohan is begging her treatment team at the Betty Ford Center to let her out early so she can celebrate her upcoming 27th birthday, RadarOnline.com is exclusively reporting. 
  
 According to an insider, Lilo wants the clinic to send a letter to the court indicating that the troubled actress doesn’t need to stay in treatment for the full court-ordered 90 days. 
  
 PHOTOS: Lindsay Lohan’s Mugshot Hall Of Fame 
  
 The starlet entered Betty Ford on May 3, and her birthday is on July 2 — putting her a whopping 30 days short on her rehab stint if she’s to get out for her birthday. 
  
 Lindsay is “hell bent on getting out of there before the big day. Lindsay has been asking her doctors to send a letter to the court, and prosecutors, outlining the progress she has made, and that keeping her there for 90 days isn’t necessary,” a source exclusively told Radar. 
  
 “However, Lindsay isn’t going to get her way as her doctors think she could actually benefit from longer treatment, not less! Even if Betty Ford did send a letter, her plea deal said she had to remain there for 90 days. She won’t be allowed to leave early. If she does, it’s jail time.” 
  
 PHOTOS: Celebs’ Embarrassing Moments Caught On Camera 
  
 As RadarOnline.com previously reported, Lindsay’s estranged parents are putting aside decades of fighting for the benefit of their oldest child and had dinner Wednesday night at the W Hotel Hollywood, where they hashed out the plan to get their daughter healthy. 
  
 “There was no booze at the table. Dina and Michael were talking nicely to each other and not fighting,” an eyewitness told Radar. 
  
 Lindsay is locked up for 90 days of rehab and both Dina and Michael Lohan will be at the Rancho Mirage, Calif. facility on Saturday for family counseling. ||||| LINDSAY Lohan's father blames Samantha Ronson for his daughter's downward spiral. 
  
 The women dated on and off in 2008 and 2009 and even then Michael Lohan was vocal about his disdain for the famed DJ. 
  
 While Lindsay had reportedly been in rehab three times before she began seeing Samantha, Michael says the now 35-year-old disc jockey is largely responsible for her relapse. 
  
 "Lindsay was in a pretty OK place at the time - until she got involved with Samantha," Michael told Nik Richie on the internet personality's radio show. 
  
 Michael, 53, is convinced Ronson was only interested in using his daughter for her fame and money. 
  
 He alleged she has been paid to expose his daughter and profited off the troubled actress' exploits. 
  
 "I just found out she got $175,000 for that picture of Lindsay passed out in Samantha's car," Michael claimed. 
  
 According to Michael, Samantha's DJ rate has increased exponentially since she dated Lindsay. He attributes her inflated salary to the time she spent with Lindsay. 
  
 "Samantha was always spinning for $500 at a club, after she met Lindsay she would get in excess of $25,000," he continued. 
  
 "People use Lindsay like that, she's very susceptible." 
  
 Michael said Sam met LiLo at a "very vulnerable time in her life". He was going through a divorce with the actress' mother, Dina Lohan, and admits his daughter "didn't know where to go". 
  
 "Samantha got her when she was down…. Samantha dragged her to the level which is BELOW the barrel," he charged. 
  
 LiLo and Ronson split in 2009. 
  
 The actress is currently in rehab for the sixth time. She is rumoured to have recently split with her last love interest, musician Avi Snow. 
  
  |||||