Snoop Dogg, Martha Stewart to Host Weekly 'Dinner Party' Show on VH1 
  
 VH1 is uniting two of the most unlikely dinner party guests for its newest unscripted show. 
  
 The Viacom-owned cable network has gone straight to series on Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party, a weekly series in which Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg throw a joint dinner party. The series is set to debut in the fall. 
  
 Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party will feature the lifestyle exert and Emmy-winning TV host and rapper-producer Snoop Dogg throwing a weekly dinner party in which they invite celebrity friends over for what VH1 describes as a "half-baked evening of cocktails, cooking, conversation and fun where nothing is off limits." 
  
 Snoop Dogg to Guest Star in MTV's Pot Comedy 'Mary + Jane' 
  
 The VH1 series marks the first joint collaboration for Stewart and Snoop Dogg. The duo most recently were on ABC's $100,000 Pyramid and have had previous shared appearances on Comedy Central's Justin Bieber roast as well as Stewart's talk show. 
  
 The series is created and exec produced by Stewart and Kim Miller Olko for Sequential Brands Group, Snoop Dogg and Ted Chung for Merry Jane and SallyAnn Salsano for 495 Productions (Jersey Shore). VH1's Nina L. Diaz, Trevor Rose, Paul Ricci, Fernando Mills and Paula Aranda will executive produce for the cabler. 
  
 "At our dinner party, we will exemplify America's fascination with food, entertaining and celebrity," Stewart said. "Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party will redesign the traditional food competition shows in a new, different and very funny way." 
  
 Added Snoop Dogg: "My homegirl, Martha, and I have a special bond that goes back. We’re gonna be cooking, drinking and having a good time with our exclusive friends. Can’t wait for you to see how we roll together!" 
  
 Snoop Dogg Taps Wiz Khalifa, Too $hort, Swizz Beatz & More for 'Coolaid' Album 
  
 Martha & Snoop's Dinner Party marks the latest collaboration for Snoop Dogg with Viacom; he recently boarded VH1 corporate sibling MTV's scripted pot comedy Mary + Jane as an exec producer as well as recorded the theme song for the series, in which he'll also guest star. 
  
 For Salsano, the series foray marks her latest series for Viacom following CMT's Party Down South, Spike'sTattoo Nightmares, MTV's Snooki & Jwoww, Jersey Shore, Disaster Date as well as VH1's Wedding Wars, Tool Academy and more. 
  
 "We're thrilled to partner with Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg, two of pop culture’s biggest icons," VH1 and Logo president Chris McCarthy said. "Good parties are filled with fun, food and unexpected guests. Wait 'til you see what happens at Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party; it will be unforgettable." 
  
  
  
 The series comes as VH1 continues to undergo a programming refresh under McCarthy. The music-themed cable network's recent pickups include Hip-Hop Squares from exec producer Ice Cube; a late-night talk show hosted by Marc Lamont Hill as well as a talk show hosted by Amber Rose. VH1 has been doubling down on content of late, reviving America's Next Top Model and handing out a straight-to-series order based on Star Jones' saga at The View starring Vanessa Williams in addition to ordering the original film The Breaks as an ongoing scripted drama series. ||||| One, two, three and to the four, Snoop Doggy Dogg and Martha Stewart at the door. 
  
 VH1 has ordered a new unscripted series starring Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg with the working title “Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party.” The series will feature the lifestyle maven and the D-O-double-G teaming up each week to host a dinner party with celebrity guests. It is set to premiere this fall on the Viacom-owned cable network. 
  
 The series is created and executive produced by Stewart and Kim Miller Olko for Sequential Brands Group; Snoop Dogg and Ted Chung for Merry Jane; and SallyAnn Salsano for 495 Productions. Stewart and Snoop Dogg recently appeared together on ABC’s “100,000 Pyramid.” Snoop Dogg has been a guest on Stewart’s talk show, and both appeared on last year’s Comedy Central roast of Justin Bieber. 
  
 “At our dinner party, we will exemplify America’s fascination with food, entertaining and celebrity,” Stewart said. “‘Martha & Snoop’s Dinner Party’ will redesign the traditional food competition shows in a new, different and very funny way.” 
  
 Snoop Dogg added, “My homegirl, Martha and I have a special bond that goes back. We’re gonna be cooking, drinking and having a good time with our exclusive friends. Can’t wait for you to see how we roll together!” 
  
 The hip-hop star is also an executive producer of the upcoming scripted comedy “Mary + Jane” through his Merry Jane company for VH1 sibling MTV. 
  
 “We’re thrilled to partner with Martha Stewart and Snoop Dogg, two of pop culture’s biggest icons,” said VH1 and Logo president Chris McCarthy. “Good parties are filled with fun, food and unexpected guests. Wait til you see what happens at ‘Martha and Snoop’s Dinner Party’; it will be unforgettable.” |||||