And it looks like reading is as popular as ever!
Last year was a record year for book publishers in the UK, and children's books are selling especially well.
They sold 16% more last year, and the biggest seller was Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.
So we want to know what's your favourite book to read - let us know!
This chat page is now closed thanks for all your comments
I love reading Dork Diaries by Rachel Rene´e Russels because I am a lot like the characters in the book.
Manki Viram, Leicester, England
My favourite book is Wild Boy by Rob Lloyd Jones.
Katie, Lantwit Major, Wales
My favourite book is Horrid Henry because he has been horrid all the time and it is very funny as well.
Gracie, Isle of Man
My favourite book is Illustrated Mum by Jacqueline Wilson. I love this book because it shows you how all people live differently. It is very a interesting book.
Harsimran, Leamington Spa, England
Our favourite books in Primary 5 in Loirston Primary are, Horrid Henry and The Demon Dentist, Diary of the wimpy kid...The old days, Gangsta Granny, all of the Roald Dahl, especially George's marvellous medicine, 1000 facts about the world, I like to read atlases, The far away tree by Enid Blyton, They didn't teach us this in Worm School and George of the Jungle.
Primary 5, Aberdeen, Scotland
We are currently reading Midnight Gang by David Walliams and it is slowly becoming our favourite book, it's so funny!
Kookaburra Class Year 6, Kingsley Primary Academy, Croydon, England
Diary of a Wimpy kid cause it's funny.
Dylan, Isle of Man
My favourite books are The Hunger Games series by Suzanne Collins! I love the emotion and action.
Bethany, Dover, England
My favourite book of all time Dork Diaries Prom Queen because its very funny and has some pictures in it to make it more interesting.
Katelyn, Isle of Man
My favourite book is Awful Auntie by David Walliams.
Jess, Aberdeen, Scotland
My favourite book is Mr Gum because he is sneaky
Oliver, County Durham, Scotland
My favourite book is Opal Plumstead by Jaqueline Wilson. It's really interesting and quite sad at the end.
Amrita, Luton, England
My favourite book is Hound of the Baskervilles by Arthur C Doyle.
Orla, Devon, England
My favourite book is Harry Potter and also The Worst Witch.
Olivia, Croydon, England
My favourite book is Rat Burger because it is so funny and quite sad at the start .
Anya, Edinburgh, Scotland
My favourite book is The Winter Horses because I love horses but its set in WW2 and I love history and action!!
Alice, North Wales
My favourite book is Gangsta Granny by David Walliams.
Hannah, Leyland, England
My favourite book is Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and  Diary of a Wimpy Kid they're both so great.
Milano, South Croydon, England