MEXICO CITY -- Prosecutors in Mexico say they have detained one of the FBI’s 10 most-wanted fugitives after 17 years on the run -- a Mexican citizen sought for kidnapping, rape and homicide charges in Chicago, Illinois. 
  
 The federal attorney general’s office said Thursday that Fidel Urbina was detained on a U.S. extradition warrant in a tiny hamlet named “El Polvo” in a remote part of the border state of Chihuahua. He was taken into custody without incident Thursday by Interpol and Policia Federal Ministerial. 
  
 According to the FBI wanted poster, Urbina is wanted for allegedly beating and raping a woman in March of 1998. 
  
 “While out on bond, he also allegedly beat, raped and strangled a second woman to death in October of 1998. Her body was later found in the trunk of a vehicle that had been burned,” according to the FBI. 
  
 He’s been the subject of a worldwide manhunt since 1999, when he was charged federally with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. 
  
 “Many family members have waited a long time for this day to come and they deserve the opportunity to face the accused in a court of law,” Michael Anderson, special agent in charge of the FBI Chicago office, said in a statement. 
  
 Urbina was added to the FBI’s 10 Most Wanted list in 2012. He’s expected to remain in custody pending extradition proceedings. ||||| Notice: The official FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list is maintained on the FBI website. This information may be copied and distributed, however, any unauthorized alteration of any portion of the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives posters is a violation of federal law (18 U.S.C., Section 709). Persons who make or reproduce these alterations are subject to prosecution and, if convicted, shall be fined or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. ||||| Chicago auto mechanic Fidel Urbina was free on bond and awaiting trial in the brutal 1998 kidnapping and rape of a waitress when authorities say he struck again. 
  
 This time, Urbina allegedly sexually assaulted and strangled a 22-year-old woman who'd brought her car in for service at the Southwest Side auto body shop where he worked, according to police. Authorities found Gabriela Torres' body stuffed in the trunk of a car, which had been pushed into the alley in the 2300 block of West 50th Street and set ablaze. 
  
 By the time police went to question Urbina, he'd vanished. 
  
 On Friday, after 17 years on the run, Urbina was captured by Mexican authorities in a tiny village called El Polvo in a remote part of the border state of Chihuahua, according to the FBI. 
  
 Urbina, who was added to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list in 2012 and whose case was profiled on the TV program "America's Most Wanted," was taken to a federal prison in Mexico City where he is awaiting extradition to the U.S. on federal charges of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, authorities said. 
  
 He also faces pending criminal charges in Cook County in both the 1998 kidnapping case as well as in the rape and slaying of Torres, records show. 
  
 Urbina, 37, last lived in the 2100 block of South Fairfield Avenue in the Little Village neighborhood. Police alleged that in March 1998, he offered a waitress a ride home from a bar after her shift ended but instead drove her to a garage and beat and sexually assaulted her. Later, he forced her to his residence where he raped her repeatedly, according to police. She was able to escape after he fell asleep and Urbina was arrested and charged several days later, according to authorities. 
  
 Urbina, a native of Durango, Mexico, posted 10 percent of the $70,000 bond and was freed from Cook County Jail, according to an FBI sworn statement filed with the flight charges. 
  
 On Oct. 21, 1998, Urbina was working in the body shop when Torres took her car in to get the brakes fixed. Authorities allege Urbina raped, beat and strangled Torres inside the shop before binding her body and stuffing it in the trunk of a stolen 1990 Chevrolet Lumina. 
  
 According to police, Urbina enlisted the help of two men to push the car into a nearby alley, where he doused the vehicle with gasoline and lit it on fire. The two men were seen running from the burning vehicle and were later arrested and charged with arson, although there was no evidence they were aware that Torres' body was in the trunk. 
  
 Five days later, Urbina failed to appear for a court date on the rape case and a warrant was issued for his arrest, records show. His girlfriend, who lived with him at the time, told police he'd left their apartment abruptly on the day of the slaying, telling her "he was going back to Mexico," according to court records. 
  
 An immigration court later held a hearing in absentia and ordered Urbina deported, federal court records show. 
  
 jmeisner@chicagotribune.com 
  
 Twitter @jmetr22b ||||| After 17 years on the run, a Chicago man who is one of the FBI’s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives is now in custody, announced Michael J. Anderson, special agent in charge of the FBI Chicago Field Office. Mr. Anderson is joined by Superintendent of the Chicago Police Department (CPD) Eddie Johnson; Cook County Sheriff Thomas J. Dart; United States Attorney Zachary Fardon; and Cook County State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez in announcing this arrest. 
  
 Fidel Urbina was taken into custody on September 22, 2016 without incident just outside Valle de Zaragoza, Chihuahua, Mexico. He was apprehended by PFM (Policía Federal Ministerial) Interpol. Urbina was placed on the FBI’s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list in June 2012. He will remain in custody pending extradition proceedings. 
  
 “Fidel Urbina was wanted for his alleged role in two brutal attacks directed against innocent women. Many family members have waited a long time for this day to come and they deserve the opportunity to face the accused in a court of law. The FBI is extremely appreciative of our law enforcement partners in Mexico, as well as our local, state, and federal partners, for their tremendous cooperation and collaboration in the capture of this Top Ten Fugitive,” said Mr. Anderson. 
  
 Urbina, 41, whose last known address was in the 2100 block of South Fairfield in Chicago, is charged in Cook County Circuit Court with the brutal sexual assault and murder of one woman and the beating and sexual assault of a second woman. He has been the subject of a worldwide manhunt since 1999 after being charged in a criminal complaint filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. 
  
 In March 1998, Urbina was arrested by the CPD and later charged with kidnapping, brutally beating, and raping a woman in Chicago. Subsequent to his arrest, Urbina was released on bond pending his trial in Cook County Circuit Court. While out on bond, Urbina was also suspected of assaulting and bludgeoning to death 22-year-old Gabriella Torres. Her body was found in the trunk of an automobile, which had been abandoned in an alley in the 2300 block of West 50th Street in Chicago. The vehicle had been set on fire, and Torres’ body was badly burned. Attempts to locate and apprehend Urbina by local police were unsuccessful, as he had apparently fled the state. On July 20, 1999, a federal arrest warrant was issued for Urbina, and, on August 26, 2006, a provisional arrest warrant was signed by a Mexican federal magistrate. 
  
 “I'd like to thank our federal partners at the FBI for their outstanding work in apprehending Fidel Urbina, whose merciless actions against innocent victims robbed one family of a daughter and left a permanent scar on a woman fortunate enough to survive his attack,” said Chicago Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson. “Mr. Urbina’s capture should serve as a warning to violent offenders what can be accomplished through the combined weight of federal, state, and local law enforcement efforts.” 
  
 The search for Urbina was coordinated by the Chicago FBI’s Violent Crimes Task Force, which is composed of FBI special agents, detectives from the Chicago Police Department, and Cook County Sheriff’s Police investigators. 
  
 Urbina was the 497th person to be placed on the FBI’s “en Most Wanted Fugitives list, which was established in 1950. 
  
 The public is reminded that a complaint is not evidence of guilt and that all defendants in a criminal case are presumed innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. |||||