NTSB investigators say the Duck vehicle involved in Thursday’s deadly crash on the Aurora Bridge had not undergone a safety repair recommended in 2013. 
  
 A 20-year-old woman died on Sunday of injuries suffered in Thursday’s crash on the Aurora Bridge, the fifth death from the collision between a Ride the Ducks tour vehicle and a charter bus. 
  
 The woman, identified as a student at North Seattle College, died Sunday at Harborview Medical Center, a spokeswoman for the hospital said. All five victims were students attending the college. 
  
 Related: State suspends Ride the Ducks pending investigation 
  
 Also on Sunday, a federal investigator said the Duck vehicle involved in the crash didn’t receive a safety fix recommended by the company that refurbishes the amphibious tour vehicles. 
  
 National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) member Earl Weener on Sunday said Ride the Ducks International, headquartered in Atlanta, found a potentially dangerous failure point in the amphibious World War II-era vehicles’ axle housing in 2013 and recommended a fix in a notice to companies that use them. 
  
 The Duck involved in Thursday’s crash didn’t receive that fix, Weener said at a news conference on Sunday. It’s unclear whether the Seattle Ride the Ducks business received the warning. 
  
 Brian Tracey, chief executive of Ride the Ducks of Seattle, said in a statement read to reporters late Sunday evening that the company is “working to understand what happened” regarding the recommended fix. “We are absolutely heartbroken by this news,” he said of the crash, offering his condolences to the families of the victims. 
  
 The state Utilities and Transportation Commission (UTC), which regulates commercial motor carriers, said Sunday that it would inspect all Seattle Duck vehicles and driver records. Ride the Ducks of Seattle has kept its fleet idle since the crash, and the commission is seeking to prevent the company from resuming operations until inspections are complete. 
  
 “I believe that until we can be assured that each of these vehicles and drivers have been inspected they should not be back on Seattle streets,” Gov. Jay Inslee said in a statement. 
  
 Tracey said he agreed with that assessment, and the Ducks would stay off the road until “we can demonstrate that our fleet is well-maintained, road-worthy and safe.” He said the company would continue to cooperate fully with investigators. 
  
 The Duck involved in the crash, identified by the Coast Guard as Duck No. 6, was built in 1945 and last refurbished in 2005, the NTSB’s Weener said. 
  
 Weener on Saturday had said the vehicle’s left-front axle was “sheared off” in the crash. Four people, all passengers on the bus, died at the scene after the Duck veered into oncoming traffic and hit the bus. 
  
 The NTSB hadn’t determined what caused the axle failure or whether it occurred before the collision. But the failure seems to line up with witness reports that the Duck swerved and appeared to have a mechanical problem just before the accident. 
  
 NTSB investigators have interviewed 11 passengers, as well as paramedics and other first responders. They plan this week to interview the drivers of the Duck and the charter bus, which was operated by Bellair Charters & Airporter, Weener said. 
  
 Ride the Ducks Seattle has provided the NTSB with maintenance and training records, among other documents, and has been cooperating with the investigation, Weener said. 
  
 Federal investigators will remain in Seattle for the next three to five days, he said. The investigation into the cause of the accident will likely take a year. 
  
 Thirteen victims of the crash remain at Harborview, including four in serious condition in intensive care, said spokeswoman Susan Gregg. The woman who died Sunday had been in critical condition since the accident. 
  
 Two other crash survivors, both in satisfactory condition, are at the University of Washington Medical Center. ||||| SEATTLE - A 20-year-old woman injured in the crash between a charter bus and 'Ride the Ducks' vehicle has died Sunday, Susan Gregg with Harborview Medical Center said. 
  
  
  
 The woman's death raises the number of deceased victims to 5. Dozens of other students were also injured in the crash, and 13 victims are still recovering in Harborview, Gregg said. 
  
 Of the 13 patients at Harborview, four are listed in serious condition in the Intensive Care Unit, and nine are in satisfactory condition, according to Harborview Medical Center. 
  
 Two patients are UW Medical Center are in satisfactory condition. No patients remain at NW Hospital and Medical Center. 
  
  
  
 The four deceased victims were identified as Claudia Derschmidt, a 49-year-old woman from Austria; Privando Putradato, an 18-year-old man from Indonesia; Mami Sato, a 37-year-old woman from Japan; and a 17-year-old girl from China whose name was not released because she is a minor. 
  
  
  
 The deceased woman was one of about 45 students and staff from North Seattle College who were traveling Thursday to the city's Pike Place Market and Safeco Field for orientation events when the duck boat suddenly swerved into their oncoming charter bus. 
  
  
  
 The five victims who died in Thursday's crash on the Aurora Bridge were in Seattle from around the globe, but had one thing in common - a desire to further their education in one of the most welcoming, diverse cities of the world. ||||| SEATTLE (AP) — A Seattle duck boat that swerved wildly into an oncoming charter bus last week, killing five people and injuring dozens, did not have an axle repair that was recommended for at least some of the amphibious vehicles in 2013, the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday. 
  
 Seattle Police officers photograph the front tire and wheel of a "Ride the Ducks" tourist vehicle before the bus is loaded onto a flatbed tow truck Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015, after it was involved in a... (Associated Press) 
  
 Seattle Police officers look under a "Ride the Ducks" tourist vehicle as a tire and wheel from the bus sits nearby before the bus is loaded onto a flatbed tow truck Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015, after it... (Associated Press) 
  
 A towing worker stands in front of a charter passenger bus that was involved in a fatal crash with a "Ride the Duck"s tourist vehicle earlier in the day, Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015, in Seattle. (AP Photo/Ted... (Associated Press) 
  
 Ride the Ducks International, which refurbished the boat in 2005, issued a warning to its customers two years ago about potential axle failure and recommended a specific repair or increased monitoring, NTSB member Earl Weener said. 
  
 "This particular duck had not had the fix," he told a news conference. 
  
 Witnesses described seeing the duck boat's left front tire lock up before it veered into the bus on the Aurora Bridge, and federal investigators announced Saturday that they found the duck boat's left front axle sheared off — though they said it wasn't clear if the axle had broken before or after the collision. 
  
 Ride the Ducks International informed investigators late Saturday that it had issued the warning, he said. It's unclear if the company that owns the vehicle — Ride the Ducks of Seattle — was aware of the warning, Weener said. 
  
 "We're going to be following that," he said. 
  
 A representative of the Seattle duck tour company said he did not have any immediate comment on the NTSB's account. The company said it has temporarily suspended operations after the crash, but Gov. Jay Inslee and Seattle Mayor Ed Murray announced Sunday night that the state wants to make it official by suspending the rides pending the outcome of an investigation. 
  
 Four international college students died at the scene of the crash, and a fifth — identified as a 20-year-old woman — died Sunday, Harborview Medical Center said. They were among about 45 students and staff from North Seattle College who were on the bus on the six lane bridge with no median when the tourist-carrying duck boat swerved into it. 
  
 More than 50 people were taken to hospitals. At least 13 people remained at Seattle hospitals Sunday. 
  
 The amphibious vehicle tours are offered around the world, including in Philadelphia; Austin, Texas; Miami; Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and London. They feature former military landing craft repurposed as tour vehicles. 
  
 The vehicle involved in the Seattle crash was an Army surplus craft built in 1945. It was refurbished with a General Motors engine and chassis in 2005, Weener said. 
  
 The NTSB had few details Sunday about the warning Ride the Ducks International issued. It wasn't clear what prompted the warning or how the potential failure was discovered, or whether it applied to all duck boats or only those that the company had refurbished, he said. It wasn't clear how many of the 100 duck boats in service nationally may have had the repair, he said. 
  
 The warning included specific instructions for inspecting the area where the shaft could fail, as well as instructions for the repair, which involved welding collars around the axle shaft, Weener said. 
  
 Results of the federal probe are not expected for a year, he said. Investigators have interviewed 11 surviving passengers, including eight who were on the duck, as well as first responders. They expect to interview the drivers of the charter bus and the duck this week. 
  
 Weener described Ride the Ducks of Seattle as cooperative, and said the company had turned over training records and maintenance documents for the duck. 
  
 It's the first time the NTSB has looked into a land crash of the amphibious vehicles, which critics say are too dangerous for city streets. The federal agency has scrutinized duck tour vehicles several times when they've been in accidents on water. 
  
 State regulators also have opened an investigation, which entails inspecting all vehicle and driver records. The Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission will meet Monday to discuss its authority to shut down the company until that review is complete, Inslee said. 
  
 The amphibious vehicle involved in the crash — known as Duck No. 6 — underwent regular annual examinations by a federally certified inspector, most recently in 2015 and 2014, and met federal standards, said commission spokeswoman Amanda Maxwell. |||||