One of the victims of Friday’s early morning shooting at Northern Arizona University made an emotional plea to the judge at the initial appearance for accused murderer Steven Jones. 
  
 “He killed my best friend and I watched him die in front of me,” said a representative from Victim/Witness Services of Coconino County, reading a statement from NAU student and shooting victim Nicholas Piring. “He did this for no reason and he needs to stay in custody.” 
  
 Jones, an 18-year-old NAU freshman from Glendale, is accused of shooting Piring, Nicholas Prato, Kyle Zientek and Colin Brough in a fight that started at a party in the Flagstaff’s Franklin Corridor and spilled onto the NAU campus at approximately 1:20 a.m. Friday. Brough died from his wounds. 
  
 The suspect looked like a deer in the headlights as he made his initial appearance by video in Flagstaff Justice Court Friday afternoon. Jones appeared to be crying as Judge Paul Christian read the four felony counts against him. 
  
 “You are being charged with first-degree homicide, which is a felony, and three counts of aggravated assault, which are being charged as felonies,” the judge said as Jones lowered his head and sniffled. 
  
 Jones did not enter a plea at the hearing. His family has retained Phoenix-based criminal defense attorney Burges McCowan to represent him. McCowan, who participated by phone, asked the judge to release Jones to his parents’ custody despite the seriousness of the charges. 
  
 “He has no other place to go,” McCowan said. “He is not a flight risk.” 
  
 Prosecutor Ammon Barker asked the judge to hold the suspect without bail citing Arizona law, which makes bail unavailable to a person in custody who is charged with a capital offence, such as first-degree murder, “if the proof is evident or the presumption great that the person is guilty of the offense charged.” Barker said those requirements had been met in this case. 
  
 “The witnesses identified the defendant as the shooter,” Barker said. “The defendant, himself, admitted he was the shooter.” 
  
 He asked the judge to set a cash only bond in excess of $1 million if the state had not met the burden of proof needed to hold Jones without bail. 
  
 According to the Associated Press, a court document states Jones told NAU police that several people approached him and two of his friends as they were outside a residence early Friday. He said a fight ensued and he was punched in the face. Jones said he was chased by several people as he ran to his car and then he yelled at them that he had a gun. 
  
 As two people approached him, Jones said, he shot both of them. Witnesses told police the victims were about 10 feet away. Jones said he used a flashlight affixed to the gun to illuminate the area before firing. Jones was arrested immediately after the shooting. 
  
 Barker called Jones’ story “self-serving” and told the judge it differed from eyewitness accounts. According to Barker, the defendant got into a verbal confrontation with members of a rival fraternity that escalated to a physical fight. The confrontation began on the city-side of Franklin Avenue, then crossed the street to the parking lot near Mountain View Hall on NAU’s campus. 
  
 “It was at that point the defendant ran to his car, retrieved his gun and then went back to the fight,” Barker told the judge. 
  
 A red Ford Mustang believed to be the suspect’s vehicle was towed from the Mountain View Hall parking lot Friday afternoon. NAUPD Officer Christopher Anderson did not confirm it was Jones’ vehicle but did say a search warrant would be executed on the car. 
  
 The weapon has been identified as a .40 caliber handgun. None of the other young men appear to have been armed. Barker also said blood evidence suggests the vehicle was a “substantial distance” away from where the victims were shot. 
  
 “I just want to be clear that there is no indication of self-defense here,” Barker continued. “The defendant had retreated from the fight; he obtained a gun and then went back into the fray. It was at that point that he began firing at the victims.” 
  
 Brough died on the scene after being shot once in the chest and once in the shoulder. The three other victims were transported to Flagstaff Medical Center for treatment. Barker said one of the young men was in critical condition, though he did not say which one. 
  
 “Judge, the bottom line is the defendant shot four unarmed individuals, killing one of them,” Barker said. “He had sufficient opportunity to reflect on what he was doing and that is why he is charged with first degree murder in this case.” 
  
 A representative from Victim/Witness Services of Coconino County read victim statements urging the judge not to release Jones on bail. Among them was a plea from the Brough’s father. 
  
 “He killed my son,” said Douglas Brough in the statement read by the Victim/Witness Services representative. “He shouldn’t be allowed to go anywhere. He needs to stay in custody.” 
  
 Victim/Witness also delivered a statement from Zientek’s parents. 
  
 “He killed someone and he severely hurt our son,” they said in the statement. “He should sit in there and think about what he did.” 
  
 The judge set a cash only bond for Jones at $2 million. The next appearance in the case is set for Oct. 15. ||||| FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. (AP) — The latest on the shooting at Northern Arizona University (all times local): 
  
 Police officers investigate a shooting at Northern Arizona University campus in Flagstaff, Ariz., Friday, Oct. 9, 2015. An overnight confrontation between two groups of students escalated into gunfire... (Associated Press) 
  
 Police officers investigate a shooting at Northern Arizona University campus in Flagstaff, Ariz., Friday, Oct. 9, 2015. An overnight confrontation between two groups of students escalated into gunfire... (Associated Press) 
  
 Two people embrace outside a Northern Arizona University student dormitory, Friday, Oct. 9, 2015, in Flagstaff, Ariz., after an early morning confrontation between two groups of students escalated into... (Associated Press) 
  
 11 p.m. 
  
 The university's Delta Chi fraternity chapter held a candlelight ceremony to honor the victims of Friday's shooting, the Arizona Republic reported. 
  
 Delta Chi held its ceremony at 7 p.m. The fraternity also collected donations at the vigil in memory of Colin Brough, who was killed, and the three students who were injured, the Arizona Daily Sun reported. 
  
 ___ 
  
 6:08 p.m. 
  
 Several frantic people called 911 early Friday morning to report a shooting at Northern Arizona University. 
  
 One woman looking out her dorm window told dispatchers she saw people lying on the ground with gunshot wounds but couldn't see the shooter. Another woman said her boyfriend was among those shot, and she needed an ambulance immediately. 
  
 One person was killed and three were wounded. NAU student Steven Jones has been charged with murder and aggravated assault. 
  
 One man told dispatchers he thought the shooting was a joke until people started screaming. 
  
 Dispatchers instructed some callers to stay inside, lock their doors and turn off the lights while advising help was on the way. 
  
 Police released the recordings following a public records request from The Associated Press. 
  
 ___ 
  
 3:50 p.m. 
  
 Northern Arizona University students will hold a vigil Friday in the aftermath of a campus shooting that left one student dead and three others wounded. 
  
 Rabbi Dovie Shapiro says he and several students are planning a candlelight vigil at 5 p.m. at Chabad of Flagstaff. 
  
 Shapiro says students have expressed interest in coming together to pray for the victims. 
  
 An 18-year-old NAU student is being held in connection with the shooting. 
  
 ___ 
  
 2:48 p.m. 
  
 An 18-year-old Northern Arizona University student accused of opening fire on four fraternity brothers, killing one, was a pledge for another fraternity. 
  
 Sigma Chi Fraternity executive director Michael Church confirmed in a statement Friday that Steven Jones was seeking membership with its NAU chapter. 
  
 Church says the shooting was not associated with any chapter event. 
  
 He says Jones was removed from the chapter's pledge program immediately following his arrest. 
  
 The chapter's operations have also been suspended while the Evanston, Illinois-based fraternity investigates the shooting. 
  
 The four victims were all members of Delta Chi Fraternity. 
  
 ___ 
  
 2:38 p.m. 
  
 A prosecutor says there is no indication of self-defense on the part of the 18-year-old suspect in the deadly overnight shooting at Northern Arizona University. 
  
 Deputy County Attorney Ammon Barker said Steven Jones could have easily walked away from a fight early Friday and instead retrieved his gun and "went back into the fray." 
  
 Jones claims he was chased by several people as he ran to his car and then he yelled at them that he had a gun. Barker says Jones gave "self-serving statements to police." 
  
 Barker says the student who died was hit with two bullets, one in the chest and one in the shoulder. 
  
 ___ 
  
 2:20 p.m. 
  
 A judge has set a $2 million cash-only bond for an 18-year-old Northern Arizona University student accused of fatally shooting another student and wounding three others. 
  
 Steven Jones appeared before the judge via video from the Coconino County Jail for his initial court appearance Friday afternoon. 
  
 He briefly wept when the judge read the charges against him — one count of first-degree homicide and three counts of aggravated assault. 
  
 Jones' next court appearance is scheduled for Oct. 15. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1:30 p.m. 
  
 Several people are dropping off bouquets of flowers outside the Colorado family home of the Northern Arizona University student who was killed in an overnight campus shooting. 
  
 One of them, Ronan Kirwan, dwelled on his friend Colin Brough's death on Friday as he paused in the family's front yard in the commuter town of Castle Rock. 
  
 Kirwan says Brough had a lot of friends, was a "people person," and loved to go skiing. He says Brough was happy at NAU and was doing well there. And he called Brough's death "just a waste." 
  
 Brough was killed in the shooting that left three others wounded. An 18-year-old NAU student accused of the fatal shooting faces an initial court appearance in Flagstaff Friday afternoon. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1:15 p.m. 
  
 A court document says an 18-year-old Northern Arizona University student accused of fatally shooting another student and wounding three others retrieved a gun from his car following a fistfight. 
  
 Steven Jones told NAU police that several people approached him and two of his friends as they were outside a residence early Friday. He said a fight ensued and he was punched in the face. 
  
 Jones says he was chased by several people as he ran to his car and then he yelled at them that he had a gun. 
  
 As two people approached him, Jones says he shot both of them. Witnesses say the victims were about 10 feet away. 
  
 Jones told police that he used a flashlight affixed to the gun to illuminate the area before firing. 
  
 Witnesses say none of the victims appeared to be armed. 
  
 ___ 
  
 12:30 p.m. 
  
 An 18-year-old Northern Arizona University student accused of fatally shooting another student and wounding three others faces an initial court appearance in Flagstaff Friday afternoon. 
  
 University officials said Steven Jones was arrested immediately after the shooting and faces one count of first-degree murder and three of aggravated assault. 
  
 Police said the shooting occurred early Friday morning in a parking lot near a dorm following a confrontation between two groups of students. 
  
 Delta Chi executive director Justin Sherman said that the four victims were members of the fraternity. Sherman also said the suspect was not a member. 
  
 ___ 
  
 11:50 a.m. 
  
 A Northern Arizona University student who was killed in an overnight campus shooting loved to play lacrosse and wanted to be successful so he could help others. 
  
 Ryan Jernegan, of Woodbury, New Jersey, says his cousin, Colin Brough, was "the happiest person that you probably would ever meet." 
  
 Jernegan says he and Brough were close growing up and reunited during a chance meeting in Las Vegas in June. 
  
 Jernegan says now he keeps thinking how lucky he was to spend those days with him. 
  
 Brough was killed in a shooting that left three other students wounded. 
  
 ___ 
  
 11:20 a.m. 
  
 The four victims in the overnight shooting at Northern Arizona University were all members of the same fraternity. 
  
 Delta Chi executive director Justin Sherman said in a letter in the aftermath of the shooting that Colin Brough, Nicholas Prato, Kyle Zientek and Nicholas Piring were members of the fraternity. 
  
 The alleged gunman was not a member of the fraternity. 
  
 ___ 
  
 11:05 a.m. 
  
 Northern Arizona University says an error in its alert system kept some people on its distribution list from getting an initial message warning of an active shooter. 
  
 The university says its police department was notified at 1:20 a.m. of shots fired and responding police had the suspect detained two minutes later. 
  
 The initial alert sent at 1:30 a.m. warned of an active shooter and an "imminent threat" and advised people to avoid the area where the shooting took place and "take immediate cover." 
  
 The university says an error resulted in only "partial distribution" of the initial alert. University spokesman Eric Dieterle declined to elaborate or to say how many people didn't get the initial message. 
  
 A final all-clear message was sent to the entire campus at 2:52 a.m. 
  
 ___ 
  
 11 a.m. 
  
 Northern Arizona University officials say campus police had the suspect in an early morning fatal shooting in custody within two minutes of first word of the incident. 
  
 A statement released by the university said NAU police were notified at 1:20 a.m. of shots fired and that the suspect was detained and the situation secured at 1:22 a.m. 
  
 The statement didn't say what was going on at the shooting scene in a campus parking lot when police arrived. 
  
 Emergency medical personnel were on the scene a 1:33 a.m. 
  
 The university said one student was killed and three others wounded and that the suspect is a fellow student. 
  
 ___ 
  
 10:20 a.m. 
  
 Officials say a student who was fatally shot at Northern Arizona University was from Colorado. 
  
 Douglas County Schools say that Colin Brough, who was killed in the shooting that wounded three others early Friday, graduated from Castle View High School in Castle Rock, Colorado, in 2013. 
  
 Spokesman Randy Barber says a crisis team has been sent to support students and staff at the high school about 30 miles south of downtown Denver. 
  
 Authorities say the shooting erupted in a confrontation between two student groups. 
  
 ___ 
  
 8:30 a.m. 
  
 Authorities have released the names of the victims in the overnight shooting at Northern Arizona University. 
  
 The student who died was identified by the school as Colin Brough. The victims being treated at Flagstaff Medical Center are Nicholas Prato, Kyle Zientek and Nicholas Piring. 
  
 Police say the shooting erupted in a confrontation between two student groups. 
  
 The parking lot where the shooting happened is just outside Mountain View Hall dormitory on the Flagstaff campus, which provides housing for many of the campus' sororities and fraternities. 
  
 ___ 
  
 7:30 a.m. 
  
 Arizona political leaders say the city of Flagstaff and Northern Arizona University are in their thoughts and prayers after a campus shooting left one person dead and three others wounded. 
  
 Gov. Doug Ducey said the incident, which officials say began as a fight between groups of students, was "heartbreaking" and that the state stands ready to help in the investigation and response. 
  
 Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick lives in Flagstaff. She said her heart and those of other Flagstaff residents are hurting. But she expressed confidence that the city "will only grow stronger in difficult moments like these. " 
  
 Sens. John McCain and Jeff Flake also expressed sympathy for the victims, their families and the Flagstaff community. 
  
 ___ 
  
 6:45 a.m. 
  
 A fraternity says some of its members were involved in an early morning shooting involving Northern Arizona University students in Flagstaff. 
  
 University officials said the shooting Friday in a parking lot left one person dead and three others wounded. The suspected shooter is in custody. 
  
 Iowa City, Iowa-based Delta Chi Fraternity said Delta Chi members were involved, but Executive Director Justin Sherman said in the statement that the organization doesn't have detailed information about the identity of the victims. 
  
 Sherman said it was an isolated incident and not fraternity related. 
  
 The shooting occurred near a large residence hall that the university's website says is home for most students in the Greek system on campus. 
  
 ___ 
  
 6:30 a.m. 
  
 Police say the shooting at Northern Arizona University that killed one student and wounded three others began as a fight between two groups. 
  
 University police chief Greg Fowler identified the suspect as 18-year-old Steven Jones. He is believed to be a freshman at the Flagstaff school. 
  
 The shooting happened at 1:20 a.m. in a parking lot outside a dorm. The university called the shooting an "isolated and unprecedented" incident and said classes will go on as planned Friday. 
  
 ___ 
  
 3:05 a.m. 
  
 Officials say one person is dead and three others are wounded following an early morning shooting at Northern Arizona University 
  
 School public relations director Cindy Brown says the suspected shooter is in custody. 
  
 She says the first police call about the gunfire came in at 1:20 a.m. PDT Friday. 
  
 The shooting occurred in a parking lot outside Mountainview Hall dormitory at the northeast side of the Flagstaff campus. 
  
 Brown says she doesn't know what caused the shooting and also didn't have any details about the suspect and victims, their conditions and whether they are students. 
  
 No other details were immediately available. |||||