James Arbuthnot - former MP for North East Hampshire and front bench minister
Greg Barker - former MP for Bexhill and Battle and former Minister of State at the Department for Energy and Climate Change
Kate Fall - deputy chief of staff to the Prime Minister
Simone Finn - special adviser to the Minister of State for Trade
Stephen Gilbert - deputy chairman of the Conservative Party
William Hague - former MP for Richmond and former Foreign Secretary
Robert Hayward OBE - former MP for Kingswood, board member of Dignity in Dying and trustee for the YMCA
Douglas Hogg QC - former MP for Sleaford and North Hykeham and held several ministerial roles
Andrew Lansley CBE - former MP for South Cambridgeshire and former cabinet minister
James Lupton CBE - chairman of Greenhill Europe and former co-treasurer of the Conservative Party
Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE - CEO of Mitie Group PLC
Anne McIntosh - former MP for Thirsk and Malton and chairman of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Select Committee
Michelle Mone OBE - leading entrepreneur and sits on the board of directors for The Prince's Scottish Youth Business Trust
James O'Shaughnessy - managing director of Floreat Education
Emma Pidding CBE - former Chiltern District Councillor and former chairman of the National Conservative Convention
Stuart Polak CBE - director of the Conservative Friends of Israel
Councillor Gary Porter - Councillor for South Holland District Council and chairman of the Local Government Association
Councillor Liz Redfern - Leader of North Lincolnshire Council
Andrew Robathan - former MP for South Leicestershire and several front bench and government roles
Kate Rock - vice-chairman of the Conservative Party
Councillor Jane Scott OBE - leader of the Wiltshire Council
Kevin Shinkwin - longstanding voluntary sector professional
Philip Smith CBE - chief executive of The Association of Conservative Clubs
Philippa Stroud - special adviser to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
David Willetts - former MP for Havant and several front bench roles
Sir George Young Bt CH - former MP for North West Hampshire and former cabinet minister
Sir Alan Beith - former MP for Berwick-upon-Tweed and former chair of the Justice Select Committee
Sharon Bowles - former MEP for South East England
Sir Malcolm Bruce - former MP for Gordon, and former Deputy Leader of the Liberal Democrats
Lorley Burt - former MP for Solihull and former chair of the Liberal Democrats
Sir Menzies 'Ming' Campbell CH, CBE, QC - former MP for North East Fife and former Leader of the Liberal Democrats
Lynne Featherstone - former MP for Hornsey and Wood Green and held several Ministerial positions
Don Foster - former MP for Bath and former Liberal Democrat Chief Whip
Jonny Oates - former Chief of Staff to the Deputy Prime Minister in the Coalition Government
Shas Sheehan - former Councillor for Kew and involved in several community groups
Sir Andrew Stunell - former MP for Hazel Grove and former DCLG Minister
Dorothy Thornhill MBE - Mayor of Watford; former councillor and assistant headteacher
David Blunkett - former MP for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough and former cabinet minister
Alistair Darling - former MP for Edinburgh South West and former cabinet minister
Peter Hain - former MP for Neath and former cabinet minister
Rt Hon Tessa Jowell DBE - former MP for Dulwich and West Norwood and former cabinet minister
Spencer Livermore - senior Campaign Strategist for the Labour Party
Paul Murphy - former MP for Torfaen and former Cabinet Minister
Rt Hon Dawn Primarolo DBE - former MP for Bristol South and former Minister
Dave Watts - former MP for St Helens North and former chair of Parliamentary Labour Party
Danny Alexander - Lately chief secretary to the Treasury. For political and public service
Vince Cable - Lately secretary of state for Business, Innovation and Skills. For political and public service
Councillor Barry Norton - Leader, West Oxfordshire District Council. For political service
Anthony Ullman - CEO, Autofil Worldwide Limited and lately advisor to the Nick Clegg MP. For political service
Annette Brooke OBE - Lately MP for Mid Dorset and North Poole. For political and public service
Philippa Harris - co-founder, Neal Street Productions and lately advisor to the Nick Clegg. For political service
Margaret Hodge MBE - MP for Barking. For political and public service
Glenis Willmott MEP - Member of the European Parliament for the East Midlands. For political and public service
Oliver Dowden MP - Lately deputy chief of staff to the Prime Minister, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Jean-Christophe Gray - Lately the Prime Minister's spokesman, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Duncan Greenland - Lately chair of trustees, Centre Forum. For political and public service
Rupert Harrison - Lately chief of staff to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. For public service
Laurence Mann - political secretary to the Prime Minister, 10 Downing Street. For political service
Elizabeth Sugg - director of operations and campaigns, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Ian Wright - director-general, Food and Drink Federation and lately advisor to the Nick Clegg. For political and public service
Caroline Balcon - constituency manager, Witney. For political service
Ramesh Chhabra - Lately Special Adviser to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. For public service
Denzil Davidson - Lately special adviser to the Foreign Secretary. For public service
Richard Duncalf  - Lately strategic adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister. For political and public service
Clare Foges - Lately senior speechwriter to the Prime Minister, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Ameetpal Gill - director of strategy, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Matthew Hanney - Lately special adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister. For public service
Hilary Stephenson - deputy chief executive, Liberal Democrats. For political service
Benjamin Williams - Lately special adviser to the Government Deputy Chief Whip. For public service
Margaret Binks - constituency manager, Sheffield Hallam. For political service
Kate Marley - special adviser, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Councillor Shaffaq Mohammed - Councillor, Sheffield City Council. For political service
Lara Moreno-Perez, Prime Minister's Diary Secretary, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Lalini Phoolchand - deputy head of the Direct Communications Unit, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Steven Pooley - head of duty clerks, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Phillipa Rudkin - constituency manager, Tatton. For political service
Michael Salter - Lately head of political broadcast, 10 Downing Street. For public service
:: Andrew Sangar - Councillor, Sheffield City Council and lately election agent to Nick Clegg MP. For political service
Ian Sherwood - Lately volunteer, office of the Leader of the Liberal Democrats. For political service
Alison Depass - catering assistant, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Paul Schooling - gardener, 10 Downing Street. For public service
Marjorie Wallace - catering assistant, 10 Downing Street. For public service