Lancashire say Giles, Warwickshire director of cricket from 2007 to 2012, is under contract until 2018.
The former England one-day coach, 43, took charge of Lancashire in 2014 after missing out on the England head coach's job and stepping down as a selector.
BBC Sport understands Giles is torn between loyalty to Lancashire and being closer to his home in the Midlands.
Former spinner Giles, who played 54 Tests for England between 1998 and 2006, has spoken about his satisfaction in the job at Old Trafford.
He has overseen a group of emerging young talent, including 19-year-old Haseeb Hameed, who made 31 and 82 on his England Test debut in India last week.
However, Giles spends many days away from his home in Droitwich, Worcestershire, throughout the year.
A decision must be made soon by Giles, as both counties need next season's director of cricket in place before the end of the year.
The post at Edgbaston has been vacant since Giles' former team-mate and assistant coach Dougie Brown left in October.
The Warwickshire first-team squad are already back in pre-season training, while Giles returns to work at Lancashire this week after a family holiday.
Under Giles, Warwickshire won the County Championship in 2012 and the Clydesdale Bank 40 in 2010.
He was named coach of England's limited-overs sides in 2012, before being replaced when Peter Moores was re-appointed head coach in all formats two years later.
"It would have been a surprise if Ashley's name hadn't been mentioned," Warwickshire chief executive Neil Snowball told BBC Sport.
"Ashley's an outstanding director of cricket with a great track record, who has obviously got strong links with Warwickshire and still lives in Droitwich.
"But I've had numerous phone calls and meetings with a number of candidates and we're just working our way through that list - and we're probably still two to three weeks away from making an appointment.
"Part of our end of season review was also to look at the structure of the club. And we're still looking to appoint this side of Christmas, with a view to starting work in January.
"It shouldn't surprise me, as we're a big club, but we've had some really interesting approaches from all round the world."