It is the first confirmation of his whereabouts since Wednesday, when he fled rebel forces in the city of Aden.
Officials say he will now travel to Egypt for a two-day Arab league summit.
Saudi authorities began air strikes in Yemen on Wednesday night, a step Iran called "dangerous".
The jets targeted Houthi positions in the capital Sanaa, along with missile batteries and warplanes.
Saudi Arabia says it is "defending the legitimate government" of President Hadi.
Mr Hadi took refuge in Aden last month after fleeing Sanaa, where he had been under house arrest since the Houthis took full control of the capital in January.
On Thursday a Saudi official said he had travelled to Riyadh, but would attend the Arab summit in Egypt as the "legitimate" Yemeni president.
The Saudi ambassador to the US Adel al-Jubair said the Saudi operation would begin with air strikes, and vowed: "We will do whatever it takes in order to protect the legitimate government of Yemen from falling."
Saudi-owned Al-Arabiya TV reported that the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, Morocco and Sudan were also sending aircraft, while Egypt, Jordan, Sudan and Pakistan were ready to take part in any ground offensive targeting the Houthis.
The US said it was providing "logistical and intelligence support".
However, a Houthi official warned the coalition that it risked provoking a wider war.
Following the air strikes, people rushed to the military sites which had been targeted to check the level of destruction.
Dozens of families meanwhile have fled Sanaa to safe places outside the city, fearing new air strikes.
There are long queues of cars at petrol stations amid fears of fuel shortages, and many shops and firms have shut. School and university classes in Sanaa have been suspended for the time being.
Some Sanaa residents see the air strikes as a way of ending the crisis, which they blame on the Houthis for taking over their city.
However angry Houthi followers and supporters of the former president called for protests against the attacks.
On social media, Houthi supporters have been urging them to keep advancing to the border and storm Saudi Arabia, and to blockade the strategic Bab al-Mandab Strait in the Red Sea.
Shia power Iran, which Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia accuses of backing the rebels, also demanded an immediate halt to the strikes, which it said violated Yemen's sovereignty.
But Turkey has accused Iran of trying to dominate the region.
President Tayyip Erdogan said he supported the operation against the Houthis, adding Iran's stance had begun "annoying us, Saudi Arabia and the Gulf countries".
"This is really not tolerable and Iran has to see this," he said.
A conflict that pulls in regional powers could disrupt global oil supplies, and the price of Brent crude rose almost 6% after the strikes began.
There were reports of explosions and airstrikes in the capital Sanaa, in the Houthis' northern heartland of Saada province, in Aden, and in the third city, Taiz.
Media reports said at least 13 civilians were killed in Sanaa, and 18 people were killed in clashes between rebel fighters and soldiers and militiamen loyal to Mr Hadi in southern Yemen.
Yemen's foreign minister, Riad Yassin, told the Saudi TV channel al-Hadath that the air strikes were welcome, adding: "I hope the Houthis listen to the sound of reason. With what is happening, they forced us into this."
The Houthis have said their aim is to replace Mr Hadi's government, which they accuse of being corrupt, and to implement the outcomes of the National Dialogue that was convened when Mr Saleh was forced to hand over power in 2011 following mass protests.
Yemen - who is fighting whom?
The Houthis: Zaidi Shia-led rebels from the north, who seized control of Sanaa last year and have since been expanding their control
President Hadi: Backed by military and police loyalists, and by militia known as Popular Resistance Committees, he is trying to fight back against the rebels from his stronghold in the south
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula: Seen by the US as the most dangerous offshoot of al-Qaeda, AQAP opposes both the Houthis and President Hadi.
Islamic State: A Yemeni affiliate of IS has recently emerged, which seeks to eclipse AQAP
Yemen crisis: An Iranian-Saudi battleground?
Yemen: Waiting for the war
Meeting the Houthis - and their enemies
The rise of Yemen's Houthi rebels
What are the differences between Sunnis and Shia?