The relegation-threatened home side took a 25th-minute lead through Gavin Massey, but Gary Liddle levelled nine minutes later.
Jamie Proctor scored the winner on 68 minutes, but was then sent off 15 minutes from time.
The O's went in front when teenage goalkeeper Sam Sargeant, making his home league debut, sent a long clearance down the centre of the field and the ball sliced off the foot of a Carlisle defender into the path of Massey, who lashed the ball into the net from 20 yards.
The visitors restored parity when Jamie Devitt's free-kick thumped against the angle of the upright and the crossbar and the ball fell into the path of the unmarked Liddle, who had the simplest of tasks to steer the rebound into an empty net.
The Cumbrians, who had dictated matters after the break, went ahead when Nicky Adams delivered a superb cross from the left onto the head of substitute George Waring, whose shot was palmed away by Sargeant, but Proctor latched onto the loose ball to head it into the net.
Proctor's afternoon turned sour, though, when he was red-carded on 75 minutes following two bookings in three minutes for reckless tackles.
Despite being a man down, the visitors had little trouble in protecting their lead with the three points improving their automatic promotion hopes.
Report supplied by the Press Association
Match ends, Leyton Orient 1, Carlisle United 2.
Second Half ends, Leyton Orient 1, Carlisle United 2.
Attempt missed. Nigel Atangana (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Foul by Teddy Mezague (Leyton Orient).
George Waring (Carlisle United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Leyton Orient. Conceded by Macaulay Gillesphey.
Substitution, Carlisle United. James Bailey replaces Nicky Adams.
Attempt missed. Jamie Devitt (Carlisle United) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Teddy Mezague (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by George Waring (Carlisle United).
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Teddy Mezague replaces Callum Kennedy because of an injury.
Attempt saved. Sammy Moore (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Foul by Victor Adeboyejo (Leyton Orient).
Michael Raynes (Carlisle United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Corner,  Carlisle United. Conceded by Callum Kennedy.
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Victor Adeboyejo replaces Sam Dalby.
Michael Jones (Carlisle United) is shown the yellow card.
(Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Michael Jones (Carlisle United).
Sammy Moore (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Second yellow card to Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United) for a bad foul.
Foul by Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United).
Attempt missed. Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top left corner.
Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Nicky Hunt (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United).
Sam Dalby (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United).
Substitution, Carlisle United. Michael Jones replaces John O'Sullivan.
Goal!  Leyton Orient 1, Carlisle United 2. Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United) header from very close range to the bottom left corner.
Attempt saved. George Waring (Carlisle United) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Substitution, Carlisle United. George Waring replaces Jabo Ibehre.
Sammy Moore (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by John O'Sullivan (Carlisle United).
Foul by Sammy Moore (Leyton Orient).
Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Hand ball by Jamie Proctor (Carlisle United).
Attempt blocked. Jabo Ibehre (Carlisle United) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is blocked.
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Sammy Moore replaces Rowan Liburd.
Tom Parkes (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.