Cyndi Lauper's tribute to 9/11 before the U.S. Open semifinal between Serena Williams and Caroline Wozniacki started out with far greater gravity than you'd expect from the singer of the theme song to "The Goonies." The former pop star called for a moment of silence before breaking into an understated rendition of "The Spar Spangled Banner." It was all going well. 
  
 Then she pulled a Christina Aguilera and messed up the words. I'd tell you when the flub comes in but, don't worry, you'll know. (Fine, it's at the 0:48 mark of this clip.) 
  
 The biggest difference between Cyndi and Christina, besides relevance, is that Cyndi didn't cover her flub very well. If you watched the Super Bowl anthem and didn't know the words, you wouldn't have been able to tell Aguilera botched it. She covered it up like a pro. Lauper, on the other hand, mumbled her way through the line she messed up, like an elementary school student who forgets the lyrics to "Tomorrow." 
  
 Let's not be too hard on her for this, namely because the far greater patriotic insult was that Statue of Liberty dress. ||||| Sporting a super-short dress emblazoned with the Statue of Liberty and immediately after holding a moment of silence for the victims of 9/11, Cyndi Lauper is now being widely criticized on twitter for mistakenly botching the lyrics of the National Anthem at the U.S. Open semi-finals Saturday night. 
  
 Lauper sang “The Star-Spangled Banner” before the women’s semi-final match between Serena Williams and Caroline Wozniacki. 
  
 “O’er the ramparts, we watched as our flag was still streaming,” Lauper sang, instead of “O’er the ramparts we watch’d were so gallantly streaming.” 
  
 Just as they did after Christina Aguilera botched the same lyrics during the 2011 Super Bowl, Americans who were outraged as they watched and were outraged took to their twitters. (Watch the video below.) 
  
 BrookeWeisbrod Brooke Weisbrod 
  
 And here come the Cyndi Lauper messing up the anthem tweets. #usopen 
  
 GregChan_Agent Greg Chan 
  
 Omg cyndi lauper just screwed up the national anthem.. It was like a synopsis of 3 different lines. Gotta love the goonies tho. 
  
 roxannestclaire Roxanne St. Claire 
  
 The flag was still streaming??? Cyndi Lauper DESTROYED the Star Spangled Banner at the #usopen. 
  
 jon_wertheim Jon Wertheim 
  
 Oh boy, cyndi lauper goes all aguilera on these national anthem lyrics 
  
 NewRougeSton C.T. Louis 
  
 Move over Christina Aguilera... Cyndi Lauper says I can flub the Anthem too #usopen 
  
 BaisdenLive Michael Baisden 
  
 Ok, I love Cyndi Lauper but she just butchered the Star Spangled Banner at the US Open! Wow - It's Ok Cindy, I know you were nervous! - 
  
 Miss_Erin85 Dr. Erin Wilson 
  
 Wowww Cyndi Lauper just messed up the words to the National Anthem...and a fan screams out, 'Crackhead!' Lmao! #gottaloveNY |||||