A mob of eco-tourists in Costa Rica disrupted the annual breeding and nesting of sea turtles on a local beach over the weekend, prompting wildlife authorities to launch an investigation regarding environmental violations. 
  
 Hundreds of olive ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys olivacea) travel to the Ostional Wildlife Refuge located in Northwestern Guanacaste every year to lay their eggs. 
  
 The breeding of the sea creatures this season, however, was disturbed by tourists who were able to access the animal sanctuary. The lowering of water levels brought on by recent droughts allowed them to reach the otherwise inaccessible area. 
  
 According to reports, the tourists proceeded to approach the nesting sea turtles and touch them while they were trying to lay their eggs. Some members of the group even took photographs with the animals. 
  
 Leonel Delgado, secretary of the Environment Ministry's Workers Union (SITRAMINAE), said that the disturbance caused many of the olive ridley sea turtles to forgo their nesting ritual and head back to the ocean. 
  
 Carlos Hernández, administrator of the Ostional Wildlife Refuge, said that he has never seen that number of tourists at the beach, which can be found in the canton of Santa Cruz. 
  
 Hernández explained that while visitors can only enter the local beach with a licensed guide, many of the tourists who entered the wildlife refuge did so through illegal access points in different locations. 
  
 He said that they will meet with members of Costa Rica's National Police, local associations of tour guides and leaders of the community on how to improve their control of the protected sanctuary. 
  
 In a post by the SITRAMINAE on their official Facebook page, the group said that the Secretary of Environment has begun an investigation regarding the incident in order to better control the local eco-tourism that ended up hampering and limiting the natural spawning process of the sea turtles. 
  
 Olive ridley turtles are typically found living in the warm, tropical waters of the Indian and Pacific Oceans, from India to New Zealand. The sea creatures have also been observed in the waters off the western coast of Africa and the eastern coast of South American, particularly in Northern Brazil, Guyana and Venezuela. 
  
 This species of sea turtles has been historically considered the most abundant in the world, but recent commercial harvesting has caused the number of the sea creatures to drop significantly. 
  
 See Now: 27 Most Inspirational And Motivational Quotes By Influential Leaders In Tech 
  
 © 2018 Tech Times, All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission. ||||| Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 MEXICO CITY — The day-trippers swarmed onto the beach to watch one of nature’s most extraordinary sights, hundreds of thousands of olive ridley sea turtles crawling out of the ocean to lay their eggs in the sand. 
  
 The turtles did not want the company. Scared off by the thousands of tourists massed along Ostional Beach on Costa Rica’s Pacific Coast, snapping selfies and perching their children on the turtles’ backs, the ancient reptiles simply turned around and retreated into the sea. 
  
 “It was a mess,” said Yamileth Baltodano, a tour guide who was at the scene when the turtles were scared away two weeks ago. 
  
 What happened during the first weekend in September was a one-time event, when a confluence of factors allowed the utterly unexpected to take place. But it was a cautionary tale for the conservationists charged with protecting the turtles, which are classified as vulnerable, not to mention a social media sensation. Now Costa Rican officials are scrambling to make sure it does not happen again. 
  
 Continue reading the main story NICARAGUA Caribbean Sea Costa Rica Ostional San José PANAMA Pacific Ocean 50 miles 
  
 “We are reassessing the way we work and the way we tackle the issue,” Mauricio Méndez, deputy director of the Tempisque Conservation Area, which includes Ostional Beach, said in a telephone interview on Friday. 
  
 The olive ridley nesting season, from August through October, coincides with Costa Rica’s rainy season, which ordinarily provides a natural barrier that protects the turtles. During that time, the beach is all but cut off by the flood tide of the swollen Nosara River, which blocks access on bridges. Even in the dry season, the beach is accessible only by a four-wheel-drive vehicle driven by a local guide. 
  
 But this year, low rainfall caused by El Niño left the river all but dry, making passage to the beach easy. 
  
 Mr. Méndez said officials were working on changes before the next arrival, expected on Oct. 4. He said he hoped to double the number of police officers and security guards, and even to bring in the Coast Guard. Groups will be allowed in only with guides and will be limited to the edges of the nesting area. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Despite the commotion, turtles still managed to lay some eggs, perhaps at night. Mr. Méndez and his team found many more eggs than they expected after the frolicking tourists went home. 
  
 “A tornado can be happening, and they will continue to deposit the eggs, carve it out, nest, and go back to sea,” he said. 
  
 The turtles, which lay their eggs during a three- to four-day period each month, began to arrive early on Sept. 4. Photographs of the phenomenon quickly began to spread on social media. 
  
 From a distance, aboard a boat, Vanessa Bézy, a sea turtle biologist, watched in dismay as hordes of tourists clogged the beach, overwhelming the guards. 
  
 “I almost had a panic attack because it was so crowded,” said Ms. Bézy, a doctoral candidate at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who has been studying nesting behavior at Ostional Beach for five years. “It was basically a free-for-all.” ||||| Hundreds of thousands of olive ridley sea turtles came ashore on Ostional Beach to lay their eggs, but thousands of tourists were already there, doing nearly everything you’re not supposed to do around a threatened species attempting to reproduce. 
  
  
  
 Photos show the tourists crowding the shoreline so the turtles would have to crawl through the crowds to to dig their nests, or even splashing out into the water to pose for pictures with the turtles. Some of the beachgoers actually put their children on the turtles’ backs, according to the New York Times. Unsurprisingly, the throngs of big, noisy mammals scared the turtles away from their nesting ground. Most of them turned right around and swam back out to sea. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 The good news is that at least some of them returned under cover of darkness to finish their business. Conservations found more eggs than they expected, and they think the turtles probably laid those eggs at night, after the tourists had gone home. 
  
 Sea turtles usually have an easier time nesting on Costa Rica’s Pacific beaches, because the landscape itself helps guarantee their privacy. Their August-through-October nesting season lines up with Costa Rica’s rainy season, and the flooded Nosara River usually blocks all access to the beach. This year, however, El Niño caused lower rainfall than usual, which made it too easy for tourists to swarm the beach. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Another wave of nesting turtles is expected in October, and the Costa Rican government is planning to double security and restrict access to nesting beaches. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 [New York Times] 
  
 Top image: Steve Jurvetson |||||