Jean-Michel Fauvergue, chief of the elite police unit that carried out Wednesday’s raid on an apartment in a Paris suburb, gave a blow-by-blow account of the operation in an interview with Le Figaro newspaper. 
  
 The Washington Post, citing two senior European officials, reported that the raid resulted in the deaths of at least two suspected terrorists, including Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the alleged ringleader of Friday’s terrorists attacks in Paris. Three other suspects were arrested. 
  
 Fauvergue heads the police counterterrorism unit known as RAID, for Research, Assistance, Intervention, Deterrence. 
  
 “We knew that [Abaaoud] was perhaps there. Other services gave us that information,” Fauvergue told Le Figaro. He said the word was that two men and a woman were in the apartment and that they were armed with AK-47 assault rifles and explosive vests. 
  
 The raid started at 4:16 a.m. with an attempt to blast open the third-floor apartment door with explosives, but the reinforced door would not open properly, and the element of surprise was lost, he said. The terrorists inside then blocked the door with a heavy object. 
  
 Hundreds of shots were exchanged, and the terrorists also threw grenades, he said. The police then decided to send in a dog, Diesel, but it was killed with a shotgun. 
  
 According to the account, six sharpshooters were posted on surrounding buildings. One of them saw one of the terrorists and ordered him to raise his hands. He refused and opened fire with a Kalashnikov. The sharpshooter wounded him with a shot, but the terrorist continued firing. 
  
 Then the woman let loose a long volley of shots, followed by a big explosion. The windows were blown out, and part of a body fell on one of the police cars in the street. No police were injured by the blast. 
  
 About five hours into the siege, police could hear only one Kalashnikov firing. The second person shooting was dead. Police then decided to use 40mm flash-bang grenades designed to deafen and stun, throwing about 20 of them into the apartment. 
  
 Police also used a drone and two robots to try to do reconnaissance, without much success. There were holes in the floor, so the commandos passed cameras up through them from the second floor. One of the bodies fell through to the second floor. It was badly mutilated by explosions. 
  
 On the third floor landing, two men were found hiding under laundry and debris. They were arrested. 
  
 “Five of our men were wounded” by bullets or shrapnel, none seriously, Fauvergue said. About 70 police commandos participated in the raid, out of 110 police in all on the scene. ||||| VIENNA (AP) — Syria as a breeding ground for terrorism moved Saturday to the foreground of a meeting of foreign ministers on the war in that country, with participants linking the shooting and bombing attacks in Paris to Mideast turmoil and the opportunities it gives for terror. 
  
 Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, right, and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry address the media before a meeting in Vienna, Austria, Saturday Nov.14, 2015. Foreign ministers from more than a... (Associated Press) 
  
 Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, right, and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry arrive to address the media before a meeting in Vienna, Austria, Saturday Nov.14, 2015. Foreign ministers from... (Associated Press) 
  
 European Union High Representative Federica Mogherini waits for the start of Syria talks at a hotel in Vienna, Austria, Saturday, Nov. 14, 2015. Kerry and other leaders are in Vienna to discuss solutions... (Associated Press) 
  
 UN Special Envoy for Syria, Staffan de Mistura, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, from left, wait for the start of a meeting at a hotel in Vienna, Austria,... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry arrives at a hotel in Vienna, Austria, Friday, Nov. 13, 2015. Kerry arrived for the next round of talks on ending the Syrian war with other key nations. (AP Photo/Ronald... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, from left, at a hotel in Vienna, Austria, Saturday, Nov. 14, 2015. Kerry and other leaders are in Vienna to discuss... (Associated Press) 
  
 U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov both condemned the attacks as they began meetings with senior representatives from Iran, Saudi Arabia and other countries with strongly conflicting views on how to end the more than four-year war. Key differences include what, if any role Syrian President Bashar Assad should play in any transition government and which groups fighting him should be grouped as terrorists. 
  
 Those differences appeared to be put aside at least temporarily as the meeting started. 
  
 "These kinds of attacks are the most vile, horrendous, outrageous, unacceptable acts on the planet," said Kerry, after speaking with Lavrov and shortly before the main meeting convened at a luxurious Vienna hotel. "And the one thing we could say to those people is that what they do in this is stiffen our resolve, all of us, to fight back, to hold people accountable, and to stand up for rule of law, which is exactly what we are here to do. 
  
 "And if they've done anything, they've encouraged us today to do even harder work to make progress and to help resolve the crises that we face," Kerry said. 
  
 Lavrov, standing next to Kerry, said there was "no justification for terrorist acts, and no justification for us not doing much more to defeat ISIS and al-Nusra and the like," adding: "I hope that this meeting as well would allow us to move forward." 
  
 Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged ministers "to move beyond their differences on Syria" and work on a negotiated end to the war. 
  
 Ahead of the meeting, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said the attacks in Paris made it all the more necessary for the international community to find a common approach in Syria and terrorism, sentiments echoed by the foreign ministers of Germany, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. 
  
 Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif told Iranian state TV Saturday that the attacks in Paris show the urgency of fighting terrorism and extremism on a global level. He joined the talks later in the day. 
  
 Jordan's foreign minister, Nasser Judeh, said the Paris attack "reaffirms our collective commitment" to fight terror and extremism wherever it may occur, while EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini said no one could turn away from the common threat. 
  
 "We are together in this: Europeans, Arabs, East and West, all the international community," she declared. "The best response to this is actually coming together, overcoming our differences, and trying together to lead the way towards peace in Syria." 
  
 More than 250,000 people have been killed in the Syrian war. Eleven million have been uprooted from their homes. The conflict has allowed Islamic State militants to carve out significant parts of Syria and Iraq for their would-be caliphate. Europe and Syria's neighbors, meanwhile, are struggling to cope with the worst migrant crisis since World War II. ||||| PARIS French prosecutors said on Saturday that three coordinated teams of gunmen and suicide bombers carried out a wave of attacks across Paris that killed 129 people in what President Francois Hollande called an "act of war" by Islamic State. 
  
 Hollande declared a state of emergency, ordering police and troops into the streets, and set three days of official mourning as a stunned nation sought to comprehend the simultaneous assault on restaurants, a concert hall and the national soccer stadium on a busy Friday evening. 
  
 As a cross-border investigation gathered pace, prosecutors said the slaughter - claimed by Islamic State as revenge for French military action in Syria and Iraq - appeared to involve a multinational team with links to the Middle East, Belgium and possibly Germany as well as home-grown French roots. 
  
 Ominously, Greek officials said one and perhaps two of the assailants had passed through Greece from Turkey alongside Syrian refugees fleeing violence in their homeland. 
  
 In the worst carnage, three gunmen systematically killed at least 89 people at a rock concert by an American band at the Bataclan theater before detonating explosive belts as anti-terrorist commandos launched an assault, officials said. 
  
 Some 40 more people were killed in five other attacks in the Paris region, including a double suicide bombing outside the Stade de France stadium, where Hollande and the German foreign minister were watching a soccer international. By Saturday night, 99 people were still in critical condition. 
  
 The bloodshed came as France, a founder member of the U.S.-led coalition waging air strikes against Islamic State, was already on high alert for terrorist attacks, raising questions about how such a complex conspiracy could go undetected. 
  
 It was the worst such attack in Europe since the Madrid train bombings of 2004, in which Islamists killed 191 people. 
  
 ARRESTS IN BELGIUM 
  
 Hollande said the attacks had been organized from abroad by Islamic State, with internal help. 
  
 Three people were arrested in Belgium as part of an anti-terrorism probe centered on a Belgian hired car found near the site of one of the Paris attacks, Belgian prosecutors said. It was one of two vehicles used in a string of attacks in central Paris within the space of less than an hour. 
  
 Sources close to the inquiry said one of the dead gunmen was French with ties to Islamist militants and had been under surveillance by the security services. French media said the man's brother and father had been were arrested on Saturday 
  
 A man arrested in Germany's southern state of Bavaria this month after guns and explosives were found in his car may also be linked to the Paris attacks, Bavaria's state premier said. 
  
 The holder of a Syrian passport found near the body of one of the suicide bombers outside the soccer stadium passed though the Greek island of Leros in October, a Greek minister said. 
  
 A Greek police source said the man had arrived in Leros with 69 refugees, where he was registered and had his fingerprints taken. Police declined to give his name. A Greek government source later said that a second suspected Paris attacker was also very likely to have passed through Greece. 
  
 If confirmed, the infiltration of militants into the flow of refugees to carry out attacks in Europe could have far-reaching political consequences. 
  
 The attacks fueled a debate raging in Europe about how to handle the influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees and other migrants propelled by civil war in Syria, Iraq and Libya. 
  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the European Commission have been pressing EU partners to ease Berlin's burden by taking in quotas of refugees. 
  
 However, in a sign of potential divisions ahead, Poland said that the attacks meant it could not now take its share of migrants under the European Union relocation plan. 
  
 ATTACKS LINKED TO SYRIA 
  
 The carnage on the streets of the French capital followed recent attacks claimed by Islamic State: the apparent downing of a Russian passenger plane in Egypt, where 224 people died, and bombings in Lebanon in which 43 died. Turkey has also pointed the finger at Islamic State over a bomb attack on a rally in Ankara last month in which more than 100 people were killed. All the attacks were linked to the war in Syria. 
  
 Prime Minister Manuel Valls said France had no intention of halting its air strikes. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan urged world leaders gathered for a summit in Turkey starting on Sunday to prioritize the fight against terrorism, saying the Paris attacks showed the time for words was now over. 
  
 Hollande pulled out of the G20 summit after declaring the first nationwide state of emergency since 1961. France will be represented by its foreign and finance ministers. 
  
 "Faced with war, the country must take appropriate action," the president said in a solemn address after meeting security chiefs. 
  
 "France will be merciless towards these barbarians from Daesh," Hollande said, using an Arab acronym for Islamic State. 
  
 Flags flew at half-mast and cinemas, theaters and other places of entertainment were closed, although schools and universities will reopen as normal on Monday. 
  
 With the capital on edge, armed police rushed to a luxury hotel near the Eiffel Tower on Saturday evening, evacuated the building, sealed off a wide perimeter and closed nearby metro stations, only to say it had been a false alarm. 
  
 Speaking after peace talks on Syria in Vienna, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said: "We are witnessing a kind of medieval and modern fascism at the same time". 
  
 In its claim of responsibility, Islamic State said the attacks were a response to France's military campaign. 
  
 It also distributed an undated video in which a bearded militant warned in Arabic: "As long as you keep bombing, you will not live in peace. You will even fear traveling to the market." 
  
 SEARCHING FOR THE MISSING 
  
 Updating the casualty toll, the Paris prosecutor said 129 people had been killed and 352 wounded, of whom 99 remained critical. Six attackers blew themselves up and one was shot by police. There may have been an eighth attacker, but this was not confirmed. 
  
 The dead included one U.S. citizen, one Swede, one Briton, two Belgians, two Romanians and two Mexicans, their governments said. 
  
 Relatives and friends scoured Paris hospitals in search of people missing since Friday evening and believed to have gone to the Bataclan concert hall. Some anguished next of kin said their relatives were neither on the confirmed death toll nor among the wounded registered in hospitals. 
  
 Sylvestre, a young man who was at the Stade de France when bombs went off there, said he had been saved by his cellphone, which he was holding to his ear when a metal bolt hit it. 
  
 Hollande temporarily reimposed border controls as part of the state of emergency to stop perpetrators escaping or new attackers entering the country. 
  
 Local sports events in Paris were suspended, stores closed, the rock band U2 canceled a concert, and schools, universities and municipal buildings stayed shut. 
  
 Emergency services were mobilized, police leave was canceled, 1,500 army reinforcements were drafted into the Paris region and hospitals recalled staff to cope with casualties. 
  
 However, France said a global climate change summit in Paris at the end of the month would go ahead, amid heightened security. 
  
 France has been on high alert since Islamist gunmen attacked the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket in January, killing 18 people. 
  
 Those attacks briefly united France in defense of freedom of speech, with a mass demonstration of more than a million people. But that unity has since broken down, with far-right populist Marine Le Pen gaining on both mainstream parties by blaming France's security problems on immigration and Islam. 
  
 World leaders responded to the attacks in Paris with defiant pledges of solidarity. From Barack Obama to Vladimir Putin and across Europe and the Middle East, leaders offered their condolences. 
  
 France ordered increased security at its missions abroad. Britain, Germany, Italy, Russia, Belgium, Hungary and the Netherlands all tightened security measures. 
  
 British police said the evacuation of London's Gatwick Airport on Saturday was connected to the discovery of a possible firearm in a bin, and that a 41-year-old man from France had been arrested. 
  
 (Additional reporting by Geert de Clercq, Jean-Baptiste Vey, Emmanuel Jarry, Elizabeth Pineau, Julien Pretot and Bate Felix Tabi-Tabe; Writing by Giles Elgood and Paul Taylor; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Kevin Liffey) ||||| Paris (CNN) Authorities in France and Belgium took people into custody Saturday in the aftermath of the worst violence in France since World War II, a series of terror attacks that killed more than 120 people. 
  
 ISIS claimed responsibility for the horrific Paris attacks, for which France vowed revenge. 
  
 President Francois Hollande deemed the shootings and bombings "an act of war." He said early Saturday, "We will lead the fight, and we will be ruthless." 
  
 Belgian authorities made a number of arrests there in the first publicized apprehensions after Friday night's bloodshed, a Belgian Justice Ministry spokeswoman said Saturday. 
  
 In Belgium, raids were conducted in the Brussels suburb of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, Justice Ministry spokeswoman Sieghild Lacoere said. A car rented in Brussels was found near one of the sites of the Paris attacks, and "that's what triggered the raids," Lacoere said. 
  
 In all, the raids took place in three homes in Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, a Western intelligence source told CNN. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Police conduct raids in Belgium Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Police conduct raids in Belgium 02:21 
  
 At least one of the raids is connected to the Paris attacks, according to the source, who is in contact with French and Belgian intelligence services. The other raids are connected to individuals known to Belgium intelligence, the source said. Some of the Paris attackers are also known to Belgium intelligence, the source added. 
  
 Also Saturday, CNN affiliate BFMTV reported that the father and a brother of one of the attackers had been taken into custody. And AFP reported that the two men were detained after police raided their homes 130 kilometers (81 miles) east of Paris. CNN has not independently verified that the men were picked up by authorities. 
  
 One of the suicide bombers in Friday's attacks has been identified as Ismael Omar Mostefai, according to a French member of Parliament. Mostefai lived in Chartres at least until 2012, said Jean-Pierre Gorges, who is mayor of the French town as well as a member of Parliament, via Facebook 
  
 Man stopped at border 
  
 A man who rented a VW Polo used by terrorists at the Bataclan concert venue was intercepted at the border with Belgium, Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. The man, who was driving a different vehicle when he was caught, is a French national living in Belgium and was accompanied by two other people, Molins said. 
  
 One of the terrorists who died in Paris was identified as a 29-year-old French national from Courcouronnes in the city's southern suburbs, Molins said Saturday. 
  
 That individual was involved in the attack on a concert hall, had a criminal history and was identified as having been radicalized in 2010, but that person had never been accused of terrorism, Molins said. 
  
 Molins said the attacker was identified by fingerprints. 
  
 JUST WATCHED French woman, British merch seller among attack victims Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH French woman, British merch seller among attack victims 01:26 
  
 In the nearly simultaneous attacks on Friday night, the assailants targeted six sites, the deadliest being a massacre at a concert hall where at least 80 people were killed. 
  
 In addition to the 129 people killed in Paris, 352 were injured, at least 99 seriously, Molins said Saturday. Seven terrorists were killed, French officials have said. They all had assault rifles, Molins added. 
  
 At least one American is among the 129 dead , officials said. The U.S. victim was Nohemi Gonzalez, 23, of El Monte, California, a junior studying design in Paris for a semester while enrolled at California State University, Long Beach, the school said. 
  
 Three Chileans also were killed, as were two people from Belgium, two from Mexico, two from Spain, one from Portugal, one from the United Kingdom and many French citizens. Other nations whose citizens were killed had yet to identify those victims. 
  
 ISIS claim 
  
 In an online statement distributed by supporters Saturday, ISIS said eight militants wearing explosive belts and armed with machine guns attacked precisely selected areas in the French capital. 
  
 The threat of ISIS is well-known, with the jihadist group's atrocities in Syria and Iraq being met with condemnation and airstrikes by a U.S.-led coalition that includes France. 
  
 But the scale and apparent coordination of Friday's attacks inside the European Union, which comes on the heels of ISIS' claim of taking down a Russian airliner in Egypt, represent an escalation of capabilities if confirmed. 
  
 A Syrian passport was found near the body of an attacker outside one of the targeted sites, the Stade de France, according to a police source, CNN affiliate France 2 and other French media reported. 
  
 The passport belonged to a person who had been processed on the Greek island of Leros, Greek Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection Nikos Toskas said Saturday. CNN cannot independently verify that the passport was authentic or whether it actually belonged to one of the attackers. 
  
 A source close to the investigation told CNN that an Egyptian passport was found on another attacker. "There is strong assumption that these passports are fake," the source said. 
  
 Hollande blamed the attacks on ISIS and said they were planned from the outside -- "with inside complicity." 
  
 "When the terrorists are capable of doing such acts, they must know that they will face a France very determined," he said. 
  
 While ISIS' claims have not been confirmed, a senior U.S. intelligence official told CNN the U.S. government has "no reason to doubt" Hollande's attribution of the attacks to the terrorist group. 
  
 The coordination and sophistication of such attacks are the most recent evidence that ISIS is eclipsing al Qaeda as the most significant global terrorist threat. 
  
 Response in wake of attacks 
  
 Hollande issued a state of emergency and called for three days of mourning after the attacks unfolded. 
  
 On Saturday, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve elaborated that the state of emergency could mean restrictions on people's movements. Border controls were tightened as of Friday, and the gendarmerie paramilitary police are on heightened alert, he said. 
  
 France has beefed up security forces at public transportation hubs, on the main roads and highways as well as everywhere in the center of Paris, Cazeneuve said after a meeting with Hollande. 
  
 Night of horror 
  
 Gunmen hit Friday night when bars and restaurants were bustling with residents and tourists. When they stormed in, glass shattered under the rage of bullets. Excited weekend chatter turned into panicked screams. 
  
 One of the targets was near a soccer match as France played world champion Germany. Terrified fans huddled together and streamed onto the field after blasts went off. Others hugged. 
  
 At the Bataclan , a concert hall where most of the fatalities occurred, fans were listening to American rock band Eagles of Death Metal when the blasts started. 
  
 "People yelled, screamed," said Julien Pearce, a radio reporter who was there. "It lasted for 10 minutes. Ten horrific minutes where everybody was on the floor covering their head." 
  
 At least 80 people died there. 
  
 Other attacks took place along streets in Paris and at the national stadium in Saint-Denis. 
  
 CNN iReporter Chris Morrow of San Diego was staying five minutes from Le Petit Cambodge, a Cambodian restaurant covering an event. 
  
 "I heard an explosion and pop, pop, pop, which sounded like gunfire. I instinctively grabbed my phone and started filming out of the window." 
  
 "The men were huddling around, and there was no one on the street except them. They had long shotguns and seemed hysterical, screaming and not really sure what to do. 
  
 "They tried a few apartment doors, trying to get in, but they were locked. In the end, they ran toward the river. I am not sure if they were police or the attackers." 
  
 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A forensic scientist works near a Paris cafe on Saturday, November 14, following a series of coordinated attacks in Paris the night before that killed scores of people. ISIS has claimed responsibility. Hide Caption 1 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police are out in force November 14 near La Belle Equipe, one of the sites of the terror attacks. Hide Caption 2 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Forensic police search for evidence inside the Comptoir Voltaire cafe after the attacks. Hide Caption 3 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Shoes and a bloody shirt lie outside the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Most of the fatalities occurred at the Bataclan in central Paris. Hide Caption 4 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Security forces evacuate people on Rue Oberkampf near the Bataclan concert hall early on November 14. Hide Caption 5 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Medics evacuate an injured woman on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire near the Bataclan early on November 14. Hide Caption 6 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police, firefighters and rescue workers secure the area near the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Hide Caption 7 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A man with blood on his shirt talks on the phone on November 14. He is next to the Bataclan theater, where gunmen shot concertgoers and held hostages until police raided the building. Hide Caption 8 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police officers patrol the area around Notre Dame cathedral in Paris on November 14. Hide Caption 9 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police officers patrol Paris' Saint-German neighborhood on November 14. Hide Caption 10 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Victims of the shooting at the Bataclan concert venue in central Paris are evacuated to receive medical treatment on November 14. Hide Caption 11 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A woman is evacuated from the Bataclan theater early on November 14. Hide Caption 12 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Forensics are working in the street of Paris after the terrorist attack on Friday, November 13. The words "horror," "massacre" and "war" peppered the front pages of the country's newspapers, conveying the shell-shocked mood. Hide Caption 13 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescuers evacuate an injured person near the Stade de France, one of several sites of attacks November 13 in Paris. Thousands of fans were watching a soccer match between France and Germany when the attacks occurred. Hide Caption 14 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A survivor of the terrorist attack in the Bataclan is assisted following terror attacks, November 13. The violence at the Bataclan, which involved a hostage-taking, resulted in the highest number of casualties of all the attacks. Hide Caption 15 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators invade the pitch of the Stade de France stadium after the international friendly soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis. Hide Caption 16 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators embrace each other as they stand on the playing field of the Stade de France stadium at the end of a soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis, outside Paris, on November 13. Hide Caption 17 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A body, covered by a sheet, is seen on the sidewalk outside the Bataclan theater. Hide Caption 18 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescuers evacuate an injured person on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire, close to the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. Hide Caption 19 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated outside the scene of a hostage situation at the Bataclan theater in Paris on November 13. Hide Caption 20 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A medic tends to a wounded man following the attacks near the Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire. Hide Caption 21 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A woman walks past police and firefighters in the Oberkampf area of Paris. Hide Caption 22 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A riot police officer stands by an ambulance near the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. Hide Caption 23 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Wounded people are evacuated outside the Bataclan concert hall. Hide Caption 24 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Police secure the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, north of Paris, following explosions during the soccer match between France and Germany. Hide Caption 25 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks A wounded man is evacuated from the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, outside Paris. Hide Caption 26 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Spectators gather on the field of the Stade de France after the attacks. Explosions were heard during the soccer match between France and Germany. Hide Caption 27 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks French security forces rush in as people are evacuated in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District of Paris. Hide Caption 28 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks People leave the Stade de France after explosions were heard near the stadium during a soccer match between France and Germany on Friday. Paris Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman told CNN President Francois Hollande was at the match and was evacuated at halftime. Hide Caption 29 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Victims lay on the pavement outside a Paris restaurant. Hide Caption 30 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks Rescue workers and medics tend to victims at the scene of one of the shootings, a restaurant in the 10th District. Attackers reportedly used AK-47 automatic weapons in separate attacks across Paris, and there were explosions at the Stade de France. Hide Caption 31 of 32 Photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks French security forces move people in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District. A witness told BFMTV that firefighters were on the scene to treat the injured. Hide Caption 32 of 32 
  
 Solidarity and fear 
  
 There has been an outpouring of support and solidarity in Paris, but large gatherings in the streets have not materialized in part because the state of emergency prohibits those. 
  
 But there's more to it than those restrictions, Paris Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman said. 
  
 "There is more sadness and probably more fear," Klugman told CNN's Christiane Amanpour. "We don't know yet if this terror in fact is over or not. And, from time to time on social media, you have more reports -- most (of it) false news -- but it shows how worried" the population is. 
  
 In the aftermath of the attacks, Parisians helped each other out by using social media to invite those in need inside their homes. 
  
 The message spread and "all around here, people opened up the doors of their buildings of their flats to welcome people," Klugman said. 
  
 Concerns 
  
 JUST WATCHED Paris under attack: The world reacts Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Paris under attack: The world reacts 02:29 
  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the attackers hate freedom and vowed that her nation will help lead the fight against terrorists. 
  
 Pope Francis on Saturday called the attacks part of the "piecemeal Third World War." 
  
 "There is no religious or human justification for it," he said in a telephone interview with TV2000, the television network of the Italian Bishops' Conference. 
  
 "I am close to the people of France, to the families of the victims, and I am praying for all of them," Pope Francis said in the interview, according to a statement from the Vatican. "I am moved, and I am saddened. I do not understand. These things (are) hard to understand." 
  
 Previous massacre ||||| Quote Message: I went to the window and there was this guy with a kalashnikov firing. It was at the corner and he was firing in all directions. Then a car came and he entered the car and it went away. There were three guys who were not killed by this killer. I did not expect such a terrifying situation. I saw... people going to a body on the ground and I called the police. I went down to the street and realised that in a bar there were four or five more bodies. There were cars where the driver and the passenger were dead. The police told everyone to go home. I stayed at home without lights. A few minutes later there was a knock on my door and the police asked if they could use my apartment. I stayed in the bathroom because it was the safest place and I did not want to distract the police. I think they stayed at the window, they were fully armed." 
  
 I went to the window and there was this guy with a kalashnikov firing. It was at the corner and he was firing in all directions. Then a car came and he entered the car and it went away. There were three guys who were not killed by this killer. I did not expect such a terrifying situation. I saw... people going to a body on the ground and I called the police. I went down to the street and realised that in a bar there were four or five more bodies. There were cars where the driver and the passenger were dead. The police told everyone to go home. I stayed at home without lights. A few minutes later there was a knock on my door and the police asked if they could use my apartment. I stayed in the bathroom because it was the safest place and I did not want to distract the police. I think they stayed at the window, they were fully armed." |||||