BOSTON (CBS) – State Police say a security incident reported on a US Airways flight from Philadelphia to Boston is not related to Monday’s bombings. 
  
 The FAA said Tuesday there had been some type of security incident on the plane. 
  
 US Airways released a statement Tuesday afternoon saying the TSA requested that upon landing in Boston, they wanted to inspect a bag on board. The plane was carrying 62 passengers. 
  
 “Passengers are safely inside the terminal and the aircraft was cleared and moved to the terminal,” a US Airways spokesperson said. 
  
 State Police spokesperson David Procopio said there was a piece of luggage on the plane that had not been checked in Philadelphia that security wanted to look at. 
  
 Procopio said the incident is not related to Monday’s explosions at the Boston Marathon finish line. 
  
 Once on the ground in Logan, luggage was taken from the plane and lined up on the runway for inspection. ||||| Authorities evacuated a busy terminal at LaGuardia Airport after receiving reports of a potentially suspicious package in a shopping area, law enforcement officials said. 
  
 Officials gave the all-clear, and passengers were allowed back into the terminal about 45 minutes later. 
  
 Travelers tweeted photos of hundreds of people outside with their luggage after Central Terminal was evacuated shortly before 11 a.m. Tuesday. 
  
 New York City has been in a state of heightened alert since two bombs exploded near the finish line of Monday's Boston Marathon, killing at least three people and injuring more than 170 others. 
  
 More officers are patrolling landmark locations in the city such as the Empire State Building and World Trade Center site, but officials say there have been no reports of any specific threats. ||||| Some tense moments after a US Airways flight was evacuated after landing in Boston this morning due to a report of a suspicious bag possibly on board. 
  
 Flight No. 1716 left Philadelphia at 9:10a.m. from Gate C19 and arrived at Logan International Airport at 10:16a.m. at Gate B16. 
  
 The TSA eventually gave an "all clear" at the airport and released this statement: 
  
 Out of an abundance of caution, a checked bag on board US Air #1716 (PHL-BOS) was re-screened at Logan International Airport upon landing after baggage handlers at PHL noted concern. The flight landed safely at BOS and passengers were deplaned and bused to their gate. TSA and the Massachusetts State Police responded. While properly screened by TSA at San Francisco International Airport (SFO), the bag was re-screened by local EOD at BOS as a precaution and has been cleared. 
  
 Security is on heightened alert after yesterday's bombings at the Boston Marathon. 
  
 In New York, a terminal at LaGuardia Airport was evacuated, according to NBCNewYork, after law enforcement received reports of a potentially suspicious package in a shopping area. 
  
 As of this afternoon no one has been charged in the Boston bombings. |||||