There was deadlock in the Senedd as Mr Jones and Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood were tied 29-29, with Lib Dem Kirsty Williams siding with Labour.
The Conservatives and the seven UKIP AMs joined Plaid in backing Ms Wood.
Another UKIP AM, Mark Reckless, told BBC Wales the whole UKIP group could back Labour if it supported the scrapping of the Severn Bridge tolls.
Mr Jones had been expected to be reinstated as first minister of a minority Labour government in the first Senedd session of the new assembly term on Wednesday.
But the meeting had to be adjourned to a later date after a roll call of AMs resulted in a tie, with no prospect of a fresh vote giving a different result.
Speaking to BBC Wales on Wednesday, Mr Reckless said: "I don't understand the prevalent assumption within media and political circles how Carwyn Jones was just going to come back unchallenged as first minister.
"The only complication for me was the leadership vote within our group … that was my focus, to keep things together, that we were a cohesive seven on that for Leanne."
But Mr Reckless added:  "All of us would be willing to back Labour and Carwyn if they were to give us sufficient of what we want in our manifesto.
"We want to scrap the [Severn Bridge] tolls," he said, describing it as a "red line" on which UKIP support for any potential first minister depended.
"If we can be assured that would happen we would be up for negotiation for whoever would do that."
A Labour group spokesperson said:  "There are no formal talks with any parties currently and certainly not UKIP.
"Nathan Gill, like almost every AM, wanted to speak to the First Minister yesterday. The First Minister wasn't available so he spoke to a senior member of our group.
"Over the coming days we will speak to AMs from every party to ensure Wales has a stable government in the soonest timeframe possible, but there's no deal with Nathan or with UKIP as seems to have been suggested."
Simon Thomas, Plaid AM, told the BBC's Daily Politics programme: "I'd be amazed after what the Labour party said yesterday that they'd be prepared to do a deal with an individual UKIP member like Nathan Gill.
"It just shows the level of desperation that the Labour party are potentially in at the moment."
Earlier, he told BBC Radio Wales that relationships between Plaid and Labour were "not at their best".
Labour AM Alun Davies told the station his party had the "right and mandate to govern", but added: "I accept completely that we need to be more open.
"We need to be transparent. We need to be inclusive. We have to reach out. That isn't in question."
All parties insisted that no deals had been done before the vote on first minister.
Tory AM Paul Davies told BBC Radio Cymru's Post Cyntaf programme: "What we wanted to show yesterday is that Labour doesn't have some divine right to govern.
"At the end of the day, Labour doesn't have a majority."
Liberal Democrat AM Kirsty Williams told BBC's The Wales Report: "I have not done a deal with the Labour Party. My decision was based on the reality of the election result."
AMs are expected to meet again next week to vote again for a first minister.
They have until 2 June - 28 days after the election - to choose a leader or face the prospect of a fresh election.