Nearly two decades after Pixar created the world's first computer animated feature with Toy Story, it has confirmed plans to return with a fourth instalment.
John Lasseter, who directed Toy Story and Toy Story 2, is back onboard to direct the film.
Disney Pixar says the film is due for release in June 2017.
"We love these characters so much; they are like family to us," Lasseter said.
"We don't want to do anything with them unless it lives up to or surpasses what's gone before."
The new story was dreamt up by the original Toy Story writing team of Lasseter, Andrew Stanton, Pete Docter and Lee Unkrich.
"When Andrew, Pete, Lee and I came up with this new idea, I just could not stop thinking about it. It was so exciting to me, I knew we had to make this movie - and I wanted to direct it myself," Lasseter said.
Some fans greeted the news with joy.
And then had to be brought back down to earth.
Others, like YouTuber Lex, were not quite as pleased.
"They should leave it alone, they wrapped it up perfectly at the end of the third one," said BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra's film critic, Rhianna Dhillon.
"Of course they will make the fourth a success because they have enough money and kudos to make millions of people want to go and see it.
"But they just don't need it because they can make original films perfectly well without needing to keep re running these old characters."
Many Twitter users agreed with Rhianna, saying that the franchise should be left as a trilogy.
The announcement was made by Walt Disney CEO Bob Iger during a meeting for investors on Thursday.
"John created Toy Story and directed the first two films, and it's great to have him back directing one of our most valuable properties," Iger said.
Details of the storyline are being kept firmly under wraps, but Lasseter has reportedly told The LA Times that Toy Story 4 will be a love story and will pick up where Toy Story 3 left off.
It's also been revealed Rashida Jones and Will McCormack will join the writing team.
2010's Toy Story 3 became the highest-grossing animated film of all time, before Frozen knocked it off top spot earlier this year.
The third instalment of the series also won two Oscars for best animated feature of the year and best original song.
Some of its iconic characters were already well-known toys, such as the Etch-A-Sketch and Mr Potato Head, while others like Woody and Buzz Lightyear became toys after being invented for the film.
Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube