A beetle and a fungus are killing off the trees that have become synonymous with the city, making way for trees that give more shade and use less water 
  
 They are the sultry, swaying backdrop to countless films, posters and music videos, an effective way to announce: this is Los Angeles. 
  
 Palm trees greet you outside the LAX airport, they line Hollywood Boulevard, stand guard over the Pacific and crisscross neighbourhoods poor and rich, a botanical army of stems and fronds which symbolise the world’s entertainment capital. 
  
 Apparently not for much longer. LA’s palm trees are dying. And most won’t be replaced. 
  
 A beetle known as the South American palm weevil and a fungus called Fusarium are killing palm trees across southern California. Others are dying of old age. “It’ll change the overall aesthetic because palm trees are so distinctive. It’s the look and feel of Los Angeles,” said Carol Bornstein, director of the nature gardens at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles. 
  
 A city tally in 1990 estimated the number of palms on city streets at 75,000, a number which has not been updated but is destined to plunge in coming decades, the Los Angeles Times reported this week, citing officials. 
  
 No one knows how many will die, or how fast. For palm lovers, the even worse news is that they won’t be replaced, perhaps not even mourned. 
  
 Authorities will instead plant other species that give more shade and consume less water – important factors for an overheating city. By the middle of the century, LA is expected to be three to five degrees fahrenheit warmer and to have triple the number of extreme heat days. 
  
 “Palms are decorative and iconic, but Los Angeles is facing more and more heatwaves, so it’s important that we plant trees that provide adequate shade to protect people and cool the city down,” said Elizabeth Skrzat, programme director for City Plants, the city’s tree planting arm. 
  
 History may record this as the moment La La Land put utility ahead of adornment. 
  
 The city will continue to plant trees in certain designated areas, including Hollywood, and developers and homeowners will probably continue to plant palms. “I seriously doubt that palms will disappear entirely,” said Skrzat. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Becky Saava, a Ugandan tourist, on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Photograph: Rory Carroll for the Guardian 
  
 Even so, the looming die-off dismayed Becky Saava, 40, a tourist from Uganda who stood beneath giant palms on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. “They should sustain them – find out what fungus is killing them and fix it, leave the city the way it is now. Palm trees are part of it. They make the place so beautiful.” 
  
 Across the street, Marcel Hidouche, a tour bus operator standing beneath another palm, said LA would rue their dwindling. “They’re relaxing. I feel like I’m on vacation, like I’m on an island and not in a big city. We come for the sunlight, not the shade.” 
  
 The town of Fillmore, 50 miles north of Hollywood, has special reason to lament. In 2012 it cut down 26 queen palms to make its downtown resemble a more generic, anytown USA to lure film and TV productions. 
  
 Only one species of palm – Washingtonia filifera, the California fan palm – is native to the state. All other species, from the exuberant, feather-topped Canary Island date palm to the more austere, svelte Mexican fan palm, are imports. 
  
 Franciscan missionaries in the 18th century were believed to be the first to plant palms ornamentally in LA, a trend that took off in the early 20th century, when palms started adorning boulevards, parks and gardens. 
  
 “It wasn’t the best choice of plants for a Mediterranean[-style] city. Especially one that has expanded so dramatically,” said Bornstein. 
  
 David Fink, policy director of Climate Resolve, a not-for-profit organisation that promotes climate solutions for southern California, said the city’s love affair with palms was not necessarily a mistake but that it was time to move on. 
  
 “The iconic association of palm trees with Los Angeles is a positive, but we’re now in a period where we have a better understanding of what’s needed. It makes sense that we replace the palms with trees that have wide expanses of shade and help cool things down.” Heat, he added, killed more people than other weather events combined. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Marcel Hidouche, a tour bus operator, on Hollywood Boulevard. Photograph: Rory Carroll for the Guardian 
  
 Climate change has made California hotter and drier, a boon to bugs that destroy vegetation, said Andy Lipkis, the president of TreePeople, an LA-based advocacy group. Palms afforded LA little protection from heat, drought and flooding, plus they served as a habitat for the Norway rat, but their die-off signalled a wider crisis, he said. 
  
 “It’s a wake-up call. Millions of trees are dying in southern California. One price tag for removing the dead trees over the next 30 years is $37bn. Trees have a much harder time growing and thriving in cities today because the climate is much harsher.” 
  
 For all the advantages of other species, however, Lipkis said part of him would miss the palms. “Something that drives me crazy is people think of trees as decoration rather than life support. But I must admit there is something that they convey that goes along with the image,” he said in a phone interview. 
  
 “I’m parked in a canyon right now watching four palms sway in the breeze. They don’t belong here, but there’s something a little bit good for the soul in the look.” ||||| Like so many things in Southern California, the palm tree was an import from somewhere else that over time became inextricably symbolic of its adopted home. 
  
 But the trees, so identified with the sun-splashed excitement of Los Angeles, are facing a decidedly darker fate. They are dying of fatal fungus and under threat of invasive insects in parks and along streets. And for the most part, the city has chosen to replace them not with new palms but with native trees that are more drought-tolerant and shadier, said Leon Borodinsky, a tree surgeon for the department of Recreation and Parks. 
  
 City officials say they don’t know how many palm trees have been lost. In 1990, a city tally put the number of palms on L.A.’s streets at 75,000. That number has declined, officials said, but they are not sure by how much. 
  
 "Over the next 50 years, you will see a great loss in palms. It's already begun," added Jared Farmer, the author of Trees in Paradise. 
  
 The decline in palm trees is part of a larger trend in L.A.’s treescape. In the next five years, the city will lose enough trees to disease and pests that it will take 30 to 50 years to replenish them, Borodinsky said. 
  
 The loss of the palms is particularly noticeable because of their prominence in the city’s streetscape. 
  
 In the 19th and early 20th centuries, Los Angeles decorated itself with a diversity of palms to enchant newcomers, Farmer said. The city imported its palm trees from all over the world, since only one species, the California fan palm, is native to the state. 
  
 Palm trees dominate frontyards on Figueroa Street in this photo from 1890. (California Historical Society) 
  
 Palm trees flourished in Los Angeles alongside the automobile and expansive freeways. "They came to represent the modern auto-based, decentralized metropolis that is L.A.," Farmer said. 
  
 Hollywood sealed the deal as movies turned the palm tree into an internationally recognized symbol of Los Angeles. 
  
 "Hollywood creates this connection between palm trees, celebrities, glamour, sex and extravagant riches," Farmer said. |||||