Palace kicked off inside the relegation zone after Swansea's shock win over Liverpool, but they nevertheless lacked urgency and failed to carve out a shot on target until the 79th minute.
It seemed they had done enough to earn a point but caved to late pressure as Tom Davies' through-ball found Coleman who advanced before firing a rising shot beyond Wayne Hennessey.
Palace might be aggrieved at the goal, as Jeff Schlupp was down injured at the time and referee Anthony Taylor allowed play to continue, although it appeared as though the winger initially went down while on the sidelines before moving back on to the pitch.
Romelu Lukaku also hit the post for Everton and Hennessy saved well from Kevin Mirallas and Ramiro Funes Mori, while the closest Palace came to scoring was from Christian Benteke's header off the bar in the first half.
Palace are now winless in five league matches under Allardyce, while victory for resurgent Everton means they have collected 13 points from the last 15 available to move to within five points of sixth-placed Manchester United.
Everton have now won their opening three league matches in a calendar year for the first time since 2008 and were good value for this latest maximum haul, racking up 16 shots on goal.
But the win might easily have been denied them had the officials taken a different view of two key incidents in the build-up to the goal, first over whether play should have been stopped to allow Schlupp to receive treatment, and then over a close offside call.
Schlupp went down injured after a being crowded out inside the Everton area and was still on the turf as the visitors broke upfield.
The ball eventually came to Davies who played a lovely first-time pass to Coleman just inside the 18-yard box, but replays showed the Irish full-back got the benefit of a very close offside call before slamming the ball into the net.
"It was frustrating that Schlupp was injured and we couldn't get a sub on and the one player we had contained all day, Coleman, goes and scores - also it looked suspiciously offside," Allardyce said.
"I feel the referee should have blown the whistle. Our player was injured and that's a decision the referee should have made. I don't think it's the responsibility of the players."
Taylor was under no obligation to stop play because of Schlupp's injury, with Fifa rules stipulating that an official is allowed to let play continue if a player is deemed to be "only slightly injured".
The rule adds that play should only be stopped "if, in the opinion of the referee, a player is seriously injured".
In Schlupp's case, he appeared to be struggling with cramp, while pictures of the incident appear to show him initially off the field of play before returning to the pitch when receiving treatment.
Crystal Palace manager Sam Allardyce: "We contained a very good Everton team today, we just didn't get the break. We hit the bar and their goalie made a great save from a free-kick.
"I think we are making improvements. The players are having to play to a different system. It's also a learning curve for me, getting to know each player.
"I have been here before, I wouldn't say I enjoy it, but with the help of my back room staff, we'll get out of this."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Everton manager Ronald Koeman: "In my opinion it was well deserved, overall we were the better football team and had the best chances in the game.
"Normally if you don't take your chances the opposition might punish you, but we scored one and kept a clean sheet.
"Since our victory against Arsenal in December, we have changed our attitude. We are more aggressive and that is why I think we are winning."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Palace's next outing comes with a home FA Cup fourth-round tie against Manchester City on Saturday (15:00 GMT), while Everton - already out of the cup - have a weekend off before returning to Premier League action on Wednesday, 1 February at Stoke City (20:00 GMT).
Match ends, Crystal Palace 0, Everton 1.
Second Half ends, Crystal Palace 0, Everton 1.
Corner,  Crystal Palace. Conceded by Joel Robles.
Attempt saved. Scott Dann (Crystal Palace) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Lee Chung-yong with a cross.
Foul by Morgan Schneiderlin (Everton).
Jason Puncheon (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Everton. Phil Jagielka replaces Ross Barkley.
Foul by Ademola Lookman (Everton).
Jason Puncheon (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Crystal Palace. Conceded by Joel Robles.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Substitution, Crystal Palace. Andros Townsend replaces Jeffrey Schlupp because of an injury.
Delay in match  (Everton).
Goal!  Crystal Palace 0, Everton 1. Seamus Coleman (Everton) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the top right corner. Assisted by Tom Davies with a through ball.
Foul by Mason Holgate (Everton).
Lee Chung-yong (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Joel Robles (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Dangerous play by Christian Benteke (Crystal Palace).
Corner,  Crystal Palace. Conceded by Joel Robles.
Attempt saved. Scott Dann (Crystal Palace) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Jason Puncheon with a cross.
Foul by Leighton Baines (Everton).
James McArthur (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt blocked. Ademola Lookman (Everton) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Ashley Williams.
Corner,  Everton. Conceded by Jeffrey Schlupp.
Attempt missed. Jason Puncheon (Crystal Palace) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses the top left corner. Assisted by James McArthur following a set piece situation.
Foul by Morgan Schneiderlin (Everton).
James McArthur (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Hand ball by Christian Benteke (Crystal Palace).
Attempt saved. Ademola Lookman (Everton) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Seamus Coleman.
Substitution, Everton. Ademola Lookman replaces Kevin Mirallas.
Substitution, Crystal Palace. Joe Ledley replaces Yohan Cabaye.
Kevin Mirallas (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jason Puncheon (Crystal Palace).
Foul by Seamus Coleman (Everton).
Jeffrey Schlupp (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Ross Barkley (Everton).
Joel Ward (Crystal Palace) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Ross Barkley (Everton) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Leighton Baines.
Tom Davies (Everton) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Jeffrey Schlupp (Crystal Palace).