After England's capitulation at Lord's, the 25-year-old struck two sixes and 39 fours in his 291 against Sussex.
He shared a partnership of 365 at Horsham with skipper Chris Read, who made 121, a club-record for the sixth wicket against Sussex.
Read eventually declared on 570-7, and Sussex were 157-4 in reply at stumps.
Taylor's innings finally came to an end when the persevering Steve Magoffin was finally rewarded with his first wicket of the innings, having only conceded 53 from 31.1 accurate overs.
He had not previously reached three figures in a Championship match this summer, but with Gary Ballance and Ian Bell both short of form in England's middle order, his name is likely to be discussed when the selectors meet to decide the squad for the third Test against Australia, which begins at Edgbaston on 29 July.
Taylor, who batted for 501 minutes, won two Test caps against South Africa in 2012, but only managed a highest score of 34.
Read, meanwhile, played the perfect supporting role and reached three figures for the third time this summer as Notts posted a total that must have far exceeded their expectations when they were 30-3 on the opening morning.
Sussex made a solid start in reply as Ed Joyce and Luke Wells, who both made 40, put on 79 for the first wicket.
But left-arm paceman Harry Gurney then took 3-54 and spinner Gary Keedy, playing his first Championship game of the summer, had Chris Nash caught at slip as he tried to drive.
Luke Wright and Craig Cachopa halted the slide before bad light ended play with the pair on 21 and 13 not out respectively.
Notts batsman James Taylor:
"It gave me a lot of pleasure. I was due some runs and I set my stall out when I got out there to bat for a long time.
"Sussex bowled exceptionally well to start with, which made it hard to score initially, but as my innings went on I got more fluent.
"As far as England is concerned I'd like to think I'll be talked about again after this innings.  I feel I have matured as a player and I know my own game a lot better.
"I've got a lot more experience in terms of knowledge of the game too. I feel in a really good place after that knock and it's up to me to kick on now."
Sussex coach Mark Robinson:
"James Taylor had to fight hard for a long while yesterday and again this morning. He rode his luck a bit but he is a great player of spin and got better and better.
"He's got a fantastic appetite for scoring big runs which I've seen both against us and when I've worked with him with England Lions.
"Even after he reached 200 he was still running hard for quick singles and showing great fitness.
"There is something in the pitch for the bowlers but it's a good cricket wicket and, as Taylor showed, if you get in you can go big."