The man reportedly arrested in the aftermath of a shooting spree in Mesa, Ariz., today sports tattoos that identify him as a neo-Nazi. What’s more, a local retired detective says he is a longtime white supremacist skinhead associated with major racist groups. 
  
 Ryan Giroux, who allegedly murdered one person and wounded five others earlier today and was arrested after a frenzied manhunt, was released from prison in Arizona in 2013. According to prison records, he has convictions for attempt to commit aggravated assault, marijuana, theft, and second degree burglary. Records indicate that he was sentenced to a total of about 14 years in prison. 
  
 The Arizona prison system’s mug shot of Giroux shows his face covered in white supremacist tattoos: where his shaven eyebrows used to be, the words “SKIN” and “HEAD”; and on his left temple, the number “88,” which is neo-Nazi code for Heil Hitler (because H is the 8th letter of the alphabet); and, on his chin, a “Thor’s Hammer,” a symbol used by adherents of Odinism, a pre-Christian faith that has been adopted by many white supremacists. 
  
 A retired Mesa Police detective who once infiltrated local skinhead groups told Hatewatch that he knew Giroux from previous encounters, and that Giroux was a member of Hammerskin Nation, a notoriously violent racist skinhead group, and an associate of the Aryan Brotherhood, a national prison gang with a long list of murders to its credit. “He’s a violent guy,” said the former detective, who knew Giroux as a young skinhead in the 1990s and early 2000s . “I think his time in prison contributed to that.” 
  
 Giroux, 41, has been in and out of Arizona prisons since 1993, when he was arrested for burglary and marijuana possession. His most recent prison stint, for an attempt to commit aggravated assault, began in 2007 and ended in October 2013. 
  
 According to early reports, the rampage apparently began before 9 a.m. at the Tri City Inn, a Mesa motel, when three people were shot in a room by the suspect. One of those, a male, died at the scene; two women in the room were wounded by the shooter. 
  
 The suspect then apparently ran across the street to a nearby bistro café and shot a man there. That victim then ran across the street to the motel, where medical personnel had arrived to treat the first victims, and he received treatment there. 
  
 The shooter then hijacked a car from a woman at the parking lot of an adjacent technical school and drove down a nearby boulevard for about a mile, and then pulled into a large apartment complex. Once there, he apparently shot and wounded a man outside in the parking lot. He then crossed the street to a nearby apartment and broke into it. The occupant of the apartment he invaded was left unhurt. 
  
 About two hours after the rampage began, Mesa police successfully cornered Giroux and captured him with the use of Tasers. He was led away from the scene in a DNA suit designed to preserve evidence on his person. 
  
 During the search for Giroux, officials at nearby Adams Elementary School put the school on shutdown, and officials at nearby Pima Medical Center similarly locked down their facility. After his arrest, there was a flood of cars from the area as people who had been put under lockdown fled, and parents arrived to take their children home from the school. ||||| MESA, Ariz. (AP) — A gunman killed one person and wounded five others Wednesday in a rampage that included a motel shooting, a carjacking and a home invasion and ended with his arrest at a nearby apartment in suburban Phoenix. 
  
 This undated photo provided by the Arizona Department of Corrections shows Ryan Giroux. A rampage Wednesday, March 18, 2015, included a motel shooting, a carjacking and a home invasion and ended with... (Associated Press) 
  
 A SWAT team walks down the street near Adams Elementary School searching for a gunman on Wednesday, March 18, 2015 in Mesa, Ariz. A gunman wounded at least four people across multiple locations in the... (Associated Press) 
  
 Tanya Ehrig, 27, cries for victims of a shooting as she holds her child Trinity in Mesa, Ariz., on Wednesday, March 18, 2015. A gunman wounded at least four people across multiple locations in the Phoenix... (Associated Press) 
  
 Mesa police talk to eyewitnesses at the scene of a shooting, Wednesday, March 18, 2015, in Mesa, Ariz. A gunman wounded at least four people across multiple locations in the Phoenix suburb and police... (Associated Press) 
  
 The suspect was taken into custody after officers spotted him on an apartment balcony and shocked him with a stun gun. Numerous officers led the handcuffed man to a truck parked outside an apartment complex. 
  
 Police later identified the man as Ryan Giroux, a 41-year-old ex-convict who has served three stints in state prison since 1994. 
  
 Giroux served prison terms totaling more than eight years for burglary, theft, attempted aggravated assault and a marijuana violation, the Arizona Department of Corrections said. 
  
 He was first incarcerated in 1994 and returned to prison in late 1995 before being released about a year later. He then returned to prison in mid-2007 before being released in late 2013. 
  
 Last year, a Maricopa County Superior Court judge allowed Giroux to remain on probation despite an unspecified probation violation. 
  
 Police said Wednesday's shootings started with an argument inside a motel room that spilled outside, leaving one man dead and two women wounded, Mesa police Detective Esteban Flores said. 
  
 The gunman then shot a man working at a nearby restaurant. The adult student at the nearby East Valley Institute of Technology was able to run across the street to emergency responders already at the motel, Flores said. The school said in a statement that the victim was one of seven students and an instructor working at Bistro 13 restaurant. The student was treated at a hospital and released. 
  
 The gunman got away by carjacking the instructor's car. 
  
 Police say the man then went to an apartment complex about 2 miles away, where he entered an apartment and shot a man. That victim will survive, police said. 
  
 A police officer found another man in a neighboring apartment building with multiple gunshot wounds, Flores said. He was listed in critical condition. 
  
 The shootings prompted an intense hunt for the gunman as Mesa police searched the trunks of cars, interviewed witnesses and brought in SWAT and canine units from other agencies. Flores warned people in the neighborhood to remain indoors. 
  
 Several buildings in the area were placed on lockdown amid a heavy law enforcement presence. The Arizona Department of Public Safety sent its SWAT team to Mesa to assist with the effort, DPS spokesman Bart Graves said. Scottsdale police also sent SWAT and canine units. 
  
 East Valley Institute of Technology officials said the school went into lockdown as soon as gunshots were heard. The lockdown lasted more than an hour, according to students. Afternoon classes convened but were made optional. 
  
 A nearby Mesa Community College campus issued an emergency alert, saying it was on lockdown and anyone there should proceed to the safest location. The campus remained closed Wednesday. 
  
 Vinny Carbone, who owns an auto body shop near the motel and restaurant, said he was getting ready to open when he heard a man yell "help, help" from Bistro 13 across the street. He turned and saw a woman outside the motel with what looked like a bullet hole in her side. 
  
 "She was in a chair but she was holding onto another chair, shaking, trying to keep her balance," Carbone said. "Another guy, he had blood on the back of his shirt." 
  
 Alex Martin, of Mesa, saw the chaos that ensued. 
  
 "I heard several cop cars and ambulances and fire trucks roll up past me. I get here and there's easily 20, 30 police units just swarming the roads," Martin said. 
  
 Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey promised Mesa officials any resources the state could offer. 
  
 "Right now, our hearts and prayers are with the people of Mesa, the individuals affected by this tragedy, and all law enforcement and first responders working to assist the victims," he said. |||||