Image Former Representative Mike Rogers, who had been advising the new administration on national security issues, has been fired from the transition team. 
  
  
  
 Credit Manuel Balce Ceneta/Associated Press 
  
 Mr. Giuliani, who made his comments in a telephone interview, added: “This is a hard thing to do. Transitions always have glitches. This is an enormously complex process.” 
  
 There were some reports within the transition of score-settling. 
  
 One member of the transition team said that at least one reason Mr. Rogers had fallen out of favor among Mr. Trump’s advisers was that, as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, he had overseen a report about the 2012 attacks on the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, which concluded that the Obama administration had not intentionally misled the public about the events there. That report echoed the findings of numerous other government investigations into the episode. 
  
 The report’s conclusions were at odds with the campaign position of Mr. Trump, who repeatedly blamed Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent and the secretary of state during the attacks, for the resulting deaths of four Americans. 
  
 Eliot A. Cohen, a former State Department official who had criticized Mr. Trump during the campaign but said after his election that he would keep an open mind about advising him, said Tuesday on Twitter that he had changed his opinion. After speaking to the transition team, he wrote, he had “changed my recommendation: stay away.” 
  
 He added: “They’re angry, arrogant, screaming ‘you LOST!’ Will be ugly.” 
  
 Mr. Cohen, a conservative Republican who served under President George W. Bush, said Trump transition officials had excoriated him after he offered some names of people who might serve in the new administration, but only if they felt departments were led by credible people. 
  
 “They think of these jobs as lollipops,” Mr. Cohen said in an interview. 
  
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, weighed in as well. On Tuesday, he issued a blunt warning to Mr. Trump and his emerging foreign policy team not to be taken in by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, whom Mr. Trump praised during the campaign. 
  
 “The Obama administration’s last attempt at resetting relations with Russia culminated in Putin’s invasion of Ukraine and military intervention in the Middle East,” Mr. McCain said. ||||| (CNN) Donald Trump's son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner is at the center of the "infighting" inside President-elect Donald Trump's transition team, multiple sources tell CNN. 
  
 Trump, however, tweeted Tuesday night that the process was "very organized." 
  
 "Very organized process taking place as I decide on Cabinet and many other positions. I am the only one who knows who the finalists are!" he said. 
  
 Very organized process taking place as I decide on Cabinet and many other positions. I am the only one who knows who the finalists are! 
  
 Former Congressman Mike Rogers said Tuesday he parted ways with Trump's transition team, removing an establishment national security voice from the planning process of the next president's cabinet. 
  
 Rogers was told Monday on the phone that he was out, according to a source familiar with the transition. The source said this was part of an effort to replace the transition team members associated with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, who previously headed up the transition team's efforts until being replaced by Vice President-elect Mike Pence. 
  
 "Sometimes in politics ... there are people who are in and people who are out. And the people who have been asked to move on have some relationship with Chris Christie," Rogers told CNN's Anderson Cooper Tuesday night. 
  
 "And so there's a whole series of about five of them that fit that criteria that were asked to leave in the last few days. And you know what? That's absolutely the campaign's prerogative. I hope they all stay engaged," he added. 
  
 Kushner has been rubbing allies the wrong way in his recent efforts to purge the transition team of Christie associates, sources say. 
  
 Kushner's father was prosecuted by then-US Attorney Christie in 2004 for tax evasion, witness tampering and illegal campaign contributions. 
  
 Rogers, who had been working on the transition team for months under Christie, was sidelined as the campaign and transitions merged into one presidential team, with members of Trump's inner circle that were with him through the campaign taking more prominent roles in the transition, according to one source familiar with the transition activity. 
  
 But another source, a longtime Christie associate, cautioned that there was no "purge" of Christie staff, the team that began the transition months ago, and that such a characterization is "overblown." While some Christie staff have left, others are continuing on with the transition team. 
  
 A high-ranking Trump insider said the so-called "purge" focused only on lobbyists. 
  
 The Christie associate said it makes sense that Pence would want some of his own people involved now that he is running the effort. 
  
 "I think there is some confusion going on about a chain of command coming out of New York. Hopefully they'll get that settled pretty soon. I think they're going to need to do it because as this clock ticks, all of these decisions become more important," Rogers told Cooper. 
  
 Earlier Tuesday, Rogers positively described his time period working with the transition team as a "privilege," in a statement to reporters, and said he was handing off his responsibilities as a national security adviser to the transition organization to Pence and "the stellar new leadership team." 
  
 "I look forward to continuing to provide advice and counsel as needed to the incoming Trump administration as they work to make America great again," Rogers said in the statement. 
  
 Speaking to CNN's Jim Sciutto on "The Lead," Rogers said later Tuesday that he felt the transition team was "going in a different direction," though he noted some confusion on the team. 
  
 "Is there a little confusion in New York? I think there is. I think this is growing pains," Rogers said. 
  
 The news of Rogers' departure was first reported by Bloomberg. 
  
 Rogers' participation in the transition team was seen as a heartening sign for traditional GOP national security advisers. 
  
 Sources tied to the transition team talking to CNN described the organization's internal disagreements -- mainly divided along the lines of establishment Republican operatives against more non-traditional influences on national security issues -- as a "knife fight" on Monday. 
  
 Rogers chaired the House Intelligence Committee while he was in Congress and is an Army veteran and former FBI agent with an expertise in national security 
  
 He has also been critical of Russia's role in recent hacking episodes, including the hacks of Democratic political groups during the election which the US government attributed to high levels of Russian government. Trump repeatedly declined to acknowledge Russia's role, saying the evidence was inconclusive. 
  
 Amid the churn in Trump's transition team the Obama White House Tuesday night said it's moving forward with a broader sharing of information. 
  
 "We received the MOU signed by Vice President-elect Pence this evening," said Brandi Hoffine, a White House spokesperson. "The next step is for the President-elect's transition team to provide us with the names of the individuals they have authorized to represent their transition effort across the government. Once we have received those names and related materials, those individuals will be able to receive the briefing materials we have prepared and begin to communicate with their Obama administration agency counterparts as we continue our work to facilitate the transition to the next administration." ||||| Former lawmaker had been tapped to advise on national security 
  
 Former House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers left President-elect Donald Trump’s transition team, days after Trump’s surprise victory and a shakeup at the top of the team’s organizational chart. 
  
 Rogers’ abrupt departure came at the request of team officials, said two people familiar with the matter. The Michigan Republican, who’d also worked for the FBI, had been tapped to help guide the new administration on national security issues. 
  
 Mike Rogers Photographer: Scott Eells/Bloomberg 
  
 “These past six months, it has been an honor to serve as National Security Senior Advisor to the Trump transition team,” Rogers said in a statement after his departure was reported. 
  
 ‘Friend’ Pence 
  
 “Our work will provide a strong foundation for the new transition team leadership as they move into the post-election phase, which naturally is incorporating the campaign team in New York who drove President-elect Trump to an incredible victory last Tuesday,” Rogers said. 
  
 “My team and I are pleased to hand off our work to my friend and former colleague, Vice President-elect Mike Pence, Executive Director Rick Dearborn, the Trump family, and the stellar new leadership team,” he said, adding he looks forward to advising the administration as needed. 
  
 Trump made Pence chairman of the transition team on Friday, demoting New Jersey Governor Chris Christie to be one of six vice chairmen. Rogers joined the team before Trump’s election, when Christie was still leading it. 
  
 Pence and Rogers entered the U.S. House the same year, and they are said to be close. 
  
 Steep Task 
  
 After his upset of Democrat Hillary Clinton, Trump now faces the steep task of filling thousands of administration jobs when he’s inaugurated in January. 
  
 Kellyanne Conway, who managed his campaign, said additional appointments could be announced this week, including Trump’s choice for Treasury secretary. 
  
 Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner Steven Mnuchin, who was the campaign’s national finance chairman, has been recommended by Trump’s team to lead the Treasury Department, according to two people familiar with the process. ||||| In his bid to become Secretary of State, Rudy Giuliani is displaying his ability to translate Donald Trump’s campaign positions on foreign affairs in a way that’s more reassuring to allies — for the most part. WSJ’s Jason Bellini reports. 
  
 WASHINGTON—Another round of staff changes buffeted President-elect Donald Trump’s transition team Tuesday amid resistance from within the Republican Party over a top choice for secretary of state. 
  
 Vice President-elect Mike Pence formally signed documents that put him in charge of the transition team, and officials insisted the 10-week effort to build an administration is on schedule. In one of his first moves, Mr. Pence ordered the removal of all lobbyists from the transition team, said one transition team member with knowledge... |||||