Mortimer's heart trouble forced him and comedy partner Vic Reeves to cancel the first leg of their 25th anniversary UK tour last October.
"I thought I had a chest infection and went to the doctor - five days later I was under the knife," Mortimer said.
"It came completely out of the blue.  My arteries were 95% blocked."
Speaking at a press conference in central London to launch the 2016 leg of the tour, Mortimer explained how he wed his partner of 22 years Lisa Matthews on the morning of the operation.
"I found out I needed heart surgery on the Thursday, so I made a will on the Friday.
"I found out I couldn't get married to Lisa because you have to give 21 days' notice. My consultant said I was incredibly ill so the registrar in London gave me permission to get married on the Monday.
"I got married at half nine on the Monday and went to hospital at 10 to have the operation."
After the press conference, Mortimer tweeted a photograph of himself and Lisa, describing her as the "love of his life".
Mortimer told the BBC his doctors had reassured him that he would not be required to make any changes to the physical comedy routines on the 15-date tour.
"I've just done all my tests and they said if I was a builder or scaffolder I would be fine to do it. We don't do any heavy labour in the show so I should be fine. Whether I'll be funny - no comment."
Reeves, real name Jim Moir, quipped: "You had that part of you removed."
Mortimer added: "I've got my cholesterol down from 8.5 to 2.7 - that's through eating seeds. I'm basically a chaffinch now."
The 25 Years of Reeves and Mortimer: The Poignant Moments tour is the comedy duo's first live tour since 1995.
It will include elements of their TV shows such as Vic Reeves Big Night Out, Shooting Stars and House of Fools.
The pair said the show would feature some of their most popular characters like Judge Nutmeg, the Stotts and Man with the Stick.
"The main thing we want to do with the tour is to leave people thinking that particular night was unique for them," Mortimer said.