The thing about Sir Christopher Lee being dead is that it doesn’t immediately strike you as being much of a career setback. For as long as he was an actor (which was a very long time indeed; his first film role was a one-line part in Terence Young’s baroquely strange romance Corridor of Mirrors, in 1948), his characters have often exuded – not immortality, exactly, but a kind of ennobled deathlessness. You always sensed they’d been around for longer than was perhaps entirely natural, and would more than likely outlast you. 
  
 Part of it was his face and imposing 6’5” frame, which had the sharply hewn angles of a medieval woodcut. And part of it was the wood-fire crackle of that bass-baritone voice, which made every script sound like illuminated manuscript. But there was also something less easily explicable at work; he imbued every character, however far-fetched, with a cold and granite grandeur, as if each one was a monument that would withstand whatever time and the weather could throw at him. 
  
 Whether he was stalking across windblown Scottish clifftops in The Wicker Man, his hair thick and wild as a tuffet of heather, or swishing, leering and hissing his way though any number of the Dracula pictures he made for Hammer Film Productions, Lee imbued each role with the depth of feeling you expect actors of his reputation and calibre to save for their big Shakespearean comeback at Stratford. 
  
 Christopher Lee in Hammer Horror's 1958 film Dracula (Photo: Everett Collection / Rex Feature) 
  
 But at the age of 92, there was his Saruman, in Peter Jackson’s final Hobbit film, fighting off the forces of the Nazgul with hitherto-unseen powers of kung fu. The scene was preposterous, but Lee didn’t just emerge from it with his dignity unbroken – his unbreakable dignity was the framework on which the entire sequence was built. He regularly brought more to a film than the film perhaps deserved from him, which is what separates a truly great actor from a talented one. 
  
 • Hurrah for Hammer Studios 
  
 Lee was the son of a Lieutenant Colonel in the King’s Royal Rifle Corps and a much-admired Italian contessa, which makes sense. After fighting in the Second World War (he was born on 27 May 1922, and was 17 years old when war broke out), he returned to England and pursued a career as an actor, and was given a seven-year contract with Rank. 
  
 • Tim Stanley: 'Lee's Dracula was a sensual, subversive treat' 
  
 After that, he scrabbled around for supporting work, his height a disadvantage until he was cast as the Creature in the 1957 Hammer production The Curse of Frankenstein (Peter Cushing played the Doctor). The character was mute: there was a wicked rumour Lee insisted on this after reading his proposed dialogue. But his performance was a masterwork of purely physical performance: stately, aching with pathos and, against all the odds, intensely moving. 
  
 Lee as Francisco Scaramanga in 1974's Bond film The Man with the Golden Gun (Photo: Everett Collection/REX) 
  
 The following year he was cast as the Count in Terence Fisher’s Dracula, with Cushing as Van Helsing, and the future of his career snapped into place. His Dracula was netherworlds apart from Bela Lugosi’s more straightforwardly tragic portrayal of the character in Tod Browning’s 1931 film for Universal. This denizen of the dark was sensual, exotic and wolfish; red-blooded in his appetites in every sense. 
  
 • Sir Christopher Lee interview: 'I’m softer than people think' 
  
 He was also mostly silent: the character was almost entirely informed by Lee’s suavely elongated physicality, and speaks only 13 lines of dialogue throughout. “One of the most revolting pictures I have seen for years,” said the critic for the Daily Express. Audiences agreed, and flocked to see it. 
  
 Lee hit his sepulchral stride. Over the next decade, he played a Mummy, Fu Manchu, Rasputin, Dracula and other vampires, and assorted wicked earls and barons, all for Hammer. Then in 1968, in Terence Fisher’s The Devil Rides Out, he bucked the trend and played the hero: the dashing Duc de Richleau, a dapper initiate in the ways of the occult who disrupts the foul activities of a Satanic cult. 
  
 Lee as Saruman in Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (Photo: PIERRE VINET/NEW LINE) 
  
 The film was a commercial failure for Hammer, but one of their best films: Lee always regarded it as a personal favourite during his time with the studio, along with Taste of Fear, a truly unnerving Clouzot-ish psychological thriller, with Lee as an unctuous French doctor tending to a young woman who keeps spotting her father’s corpse around the house. 
  
 • Christopher Lee's 10 best roles 
  
 In the early 1970s, with Hammer’s powers fading, Lee’s graveyard shift came to a natural end, and he started branching out. He was deliciously precise as Mycroft Holmes, the great detective’s elder brother, in Billy Wilder’s The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes (1970), and unforgettable as Lord Summerisle, the gallant intercessor between man and nature in Robin Hardy’s The Wicker Man (1973). 
  
 And as Francisco Scaramanga in The Man with the Golden Gun (1974), he was Roger Moore’s equal and opposite in every respect. “Face it,” wrote the critic David Thompson, “he could just as easily have been Bond.” Well, yes, but perhaps not in the 1970s, as the series swung into its camp heyday. Lee brought a sculpted cruelty to his Bond film that recalled the Sean Connery films of ten years earlier. A Lee hero belonged to another era. 
  
 Lee in The Wicker Man, 1973 (Photo: Everett Collection / Rex Features) 
  
 His wickedness, however, was timeless, and could expand to fill almost any available space. As the white wizard Saruman, his presence hung over Peter Jackson’s Lord of the Rings trilogy (2001-3) like a volcanic pall. You sense George Lucas cast him as the fallen Jedi Master Count Dooku in Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith in the hope that he’d provide exactly the same instant gravitas, and Lee couldn’t help but graciously oblige. 
  
 Of all Lee’s performances, it’s his entrance in the first Lord of the Rings film that I just can’t shake. “Smoke rises from the mountain of Doom, the hour grows late…” he intones, gliding down Orthanc’s black staircase to receive the friend he’d already in his heart betrayed. 
  
 • The five greatest Christopher Lee villains 
  
  
  
 In The Two Towers, Tolkien devotes an entire paragraph to describing Saruman’s voice. It is “low and melodious, its very sound an enchantment…for those whom it conquered, the spell endured when they were far away, and ever they heard that soft voice, whispering and urging them.” That’s also unmistakably Lee’s voice, and Lee’s physicality, and Lee’s undying talent. He was the shadow at the top of the stairs, the smiling predator beckoning you in, the flash of silver in the dark. ||||| The veteran actor was best known for roles including Dracula and Saruman in the Lord of the Rings franchise 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee, known as the master of horror, has died at the age of 93 after being hospitalised for respiratory problems and heart failure. 
  
 Christopher Lee: an actor of muscular intelligence with a staggering career | Peter Bradshaw Read more 
  
 The veteran actor, immortalised in films from Dracula to The Wicker Man, and via James Bond villainy to the Lord of the Rings trilogy, died at 8.30am on Sunday morning at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London. 
  
 His wife, the former Danish model Birgit Kroencke, decided to hold back the information for four days until all family members and friends were informed. The couple had been married for more than 50 years and had one daughter, Christina. 
  
 Christopher Lee: share your tributes Read more 
  
 The actor was knighted in 2009 for services to drama and charity, and was awarded the Bafta fellowship in 2011. 
  
 News of his death prompted an outpouring of grief from actors, musicians, and even the prime minister; all paid tribute to Lee’s great talent. 
  
 Tim Burton, the director who worked with Lee on five films, described him as “a true legend”. 
  
 “Christopher has been an enormous inspiration to me my entire life. I had the honour and pleasure to work with him on five films (Sleepy Hollow, Charlie And The Chocolate Factory, Corpse Bride, Alice In Wonderland and Dark Shadows),” he said. 
  
 “He was the last of his kind - a true legend - who I’m fortunate to have called a friend. He will continue to inspire me and I’m sure countless others for generations to come.” 
  
 Leading the tributes online were his Lord of the Rings co-stars Dominic Monaghan and Elijah Wood, as well as Sir Roger Moore, who played 007 opposite Lee in The Man With The Golden Gun. 
  
 Elijah Wood (@woodelijah) An extraordinary man and life lead, Sir Christopher Lee. You were an icon, and a towering human being with stories for days. We'll miss you. 
  
 Dominic Monaghan (@DomsWildThings) So so sorry to hear that #christopherlee has passed away. He was a fascinating person. Threw a bic pen into a tree in front of me. #legend 
  
 Sir Roger Moore (@sirrogermoore) It's terribly when you lose an old friend, and Christopher Lee was one of my oldest. We first met in 1948. 
  
 Mark Gatiss (@Markgatiss) The great, always criminally underrated Sir Christopher Lee has left us. A Titan of Cinema and a huge part of my youth. Farewell. 
  
 Omid Djalili (@omid9) Scared the living daylights out of me for years. And I loved him for it. RIP Christopher Lee pic.twitter.com/i2sKDXAMhU 
  
 Prime minister David Cameron called Lee a “titan of the golden age of cinema” while London mayor Boris Johnson tweeted his condolences alongside a picture of him and Lee together. 
  
 UK Prime Minister (@Number10gov) PM: Saddened to hear of Sir Christopher Lee's death, a titan of Golden Age of Cinema & distinguished WW2 veteran who'll be greatly missed 
  
 Boris Johnson (@MayorofLondon) Really sad to hear about the death of Christopher Lee, one of the greatest British actors and a master of the macabre pic.twitter.com/q5UUhc7xId 
  
 Born in Belgravia, London, in 1922 to a military father and an aristocratic mother, Lee’s film career started in 1947 with a role in the gothic romance Corridor of Mirrors. However, it wasn’t until the late 50s, when Lee worked with Hammer, that he started gaining fame. His first role with the studio was The Curse of Frankenstein and it was the first of 20 films that he made with Peter Cushing. “Hammer was an important part of my life, and generally speaking, we all had a lot of fun,” he said in a 2001 interview. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Christopher Lee as Dracula. Photograph: REX/Moviestore Collection 
  
 Lee’s most famous role for Hammer was playing Dracula, a role which became one of his most widely recognised, although the actor wasn’t pleased with how the character was treated. “They gave me nothing to do!” he told Total Film in 2005. “I pleaded with Hammer to let me use some of the lines that Bram Stoker had written. Occasionally, I sneaked one in. Eventually I told them that I wasn’t going to play Dracula any more. All hell broke loose.” 
  
 The blossoming career of Christopher Lee: from the archive, 11 March 1972 Read more 
  
 In the 70s, Lee continued to gain fame in the horror genre with a role in The Wicker Man, a film which he considered to be his best. “Wonderful film ... had a hell of a time getting it made,” he said. “Its power lies in the fact that you never expect what eventually happens, because everyone is so nice.” He went on to play Bond villain Scaramanga in 1974’s The Man with the Golden Gun and turned down a role in Halloween, which he later said was one of biggest career regrets. In his career, he also turned down a role in Airplane!, something he also regretted. 
  
 Christopher Lee as Saruman. Photograph: EPA 
  
 His concern over being typecast in horror films led him to Hollywood and roles in Airport ’77 and Steven Spielberg’s 1941. He was reintroduced to a new generation in 2001 with a role as the evil wizard Saruman in the Lord of the Rings trilogy and then as Count Dooku in Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. 
  
 Lee also became a regular collaborator with Tim Burton, who cast him in Sleepy Hollow, Corpse Bride and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Alice in Wonderland and Dark Shadows. Burton went on to award him with a Bafta fellowship. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest The trailer of the 1958 film The Horror of Dracula starring Sir Christopher Lee 
  
 In 2011, he returned to Hammer with a role in the Hilary Swank thriller The Resident, although he generally tried to avoid the horror genre in later years. “There have been some absolutely ghastly films recently, physically repellent,” he said. “What we did was fantasy, fairy tales – no real person can copy what we did. But they can do what Hannibal Lecter does, if they’re so inclined, people like Jeffrey Dahmer and Dennis Nilsen, and for that reason, I think such films are dangerous.” 
  
 Merry metal Christmas: Christopher Lee's 2014 festive musical offering Read more 
  
 After dabbling with music throughout much of his career, including a song on The Wicker Man soundtrack, Lee released his first full-length album Charlemagne: By the Sword and the Cross in 2010. It was well-received by the heavy metal community and won him the spirit of metal award at the 2010 Metal Hammer Golden Gods ceremony. 
  
 His 2013 single Jingle Hell entered the Billboard Hot 100 at number 22, which made him the oldest living artist ever to enter the charts. 
  
 The actor never retired from acting and he still has one film yet to be released, the fantasy film Angels in Notting Hill, where he plays a godly figure who looks after the universe. He was also set to star in 9/11 drama The 11th opposite Uma Thurman, which was due to begin filming in November. 
  
 In an interview in 2013, Lee spoke about his love of acting. “Making films has never just been a job to me, it is my life,” he said. “I have some interests outside of acting – I sing and I’ve written books, for instance – but acting is what keeps me going, it’s what I do, it gives life purpose.” ||||| That's the end of our rolling coverage of tributes to Sir Christopher Lee, after he died at 93 . As one of Britain's greatest actors, his career spanned genres, generations - and an impressive seven decades. You can read more about his life and career here . Thanks for following. 
  
 It's emerged Sir Christopher died as he prepared to start filming for his latest movie, co-starring Uma Thurman. In one of his last interviews, he declared: “When I die, I want to die with my boots on.” He certainly stayed true to his word... 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee: I want to die with my boots on 
  
 17.01 
  
 Sir Christopher played deadly assassin Francisco Scaramanga in The Man with the Golden Gun, alongside Sir Roger Moore - and, in the eyes of many fans, was one of the greatest ever James Bond villains. The official 007 Twitter account certainly agrees... 
  
 We are very sad to hear Sir Christopher Lee, who played one of Bond's greatest villains, has passed away. Our thoughts are with his family — James Bond (@007) June 11, 2015 
  
 16.46 
  
 James Franco, the American actor, shared a montage of pictures of Sir Christopher with his Instagram followers as he paid tribute to the veteran actor. 
  
 A photo posted by James Franco (@jamesfrancotv) on Jun 11, 2015 at 8:50am PDT 
  
 16.33 
  
 Comedian Omid Djalili has joined the outpouring of grief after Sir Christopher's death, describing how he embraced the fright his films brought. 
  
 Scared the living daylights out of me for years. And I loved him for it. RIP Christopher Lee pic.twitter.com/i2sKDXAMhU — Omid Djalili (@omid9) June 11, 2015 
  
 16.18 
  
 Bafta chief executive Amanda Barry described Sir Christopher as a "truly talented and versatile actor". 
  
 I am deeply saddened by the death of Sir Christopher Lee, a truly talented and versatile actor. His biography, and therefore his legacy, is one that many in the film industry can only dream of. 
  
 "He appeared in over 200 films, including some of the most iconic of our times. Throughout his career, which stretched from the 1940s to date, there were so many outstanding performances - in Dracula, The Wicker Man, The Man with the Golden Gun, to name just a few of his many credits, and more recently, the Bafta and Oscar-winning Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. 
  
 "Sir Christopher received the Academy Fellowship, the highest honour Bafta can bestow, at the Film Awards in 2011; at the time he described it as a very unexpected but very great honour." 
  
 15.58 
  
 Elijah Wood - who played Frodo Baggins in Lord of the Rings - has paid a heartfelt tribute to his co-star, describing him as a "towering human being". 
  
 An extraordinary man and life lead, Sir Christopher Lee. You were an icon, and a towering human being with stories for days. We'll miss you. — Elijah Wood (@woodelijah) June 11, 2015 
  
 15.41 
  
 Mark Gatiss, the comedy actor and screenwriter who earlier described Sir Christopher as a "titan of cinema", has shared this poignant portrait with his 600,000 Twitter followers. 
  
 Here's the portrait by Stuart Pearson Wright I once commissioned of him. pic.twitter.com/HrX7R5EUUv — Mark Gatiss (@Markgatiss) June 11, 2015 
  
 15.29 
  
 Tim Burton, the director who worked with Sir Christopher on five films, described him as "the last of his kind - a true legend". 
  
 Christopher has been an enormous inspiration to me my entire life. I had the honour and pleasure to work with him on five films (Sleepy Hollow, Charlie And The Chocolate Factory, Corpse Bride, Alice In Wonderland and Dark Shadows). 
  
 "He was the last of his kind - a true legend - who I'm fortunate to have called a friend. He will continue to inspire me and I'm sure countless others for generations to come." 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee with Tim Burton after Lee was presented the Fellowship at the BAFTAs in February 2011 (Luke MacGregor/Reuters) 
  
 15.18 
  
 This is an interesting reflection on Sir Christopher's 58-year film career - from his days as Dracula to appearing in Lord of the Rings. 
  
 Do you have kids? They know who Christopher Lee is. Are your grandparents still around? So do they. That's amazing. Such a cool guy too. — Scott Weinberg (@scottEweinberg) June 11, 2015 
  
 15.05 
  
 Sir Christopher was married to Gitte Lee, a Danish model, for 53 years. Here was his secret... 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee was married for 53 years. When asked for the secret of a long-lived marriage, he replied: “Marry someone wonderful.” — Mark Sparrow (@MarkGSparrow) June 11, 2015 
  
 14.55 
  
 One of the most touching tributes so far comes from Sir Roger Moore, the James Bond actor, who appeared alongside Sir Christopher in The Man with the Golden Gun. 
  
 It's terribly when you lose an old friend, and Christopher Lee was one of my oldest. We first met in 1948. — Sir Roger Moore (@sirrogermoore) June 11, 2015 
  
 Our thoughts are for Lady Lee, Christina and Juan — Sir Roger Moore (@sirrogermoore) June 11, 2015 
  
 14.42 
  
 He started out as the master of horror, but Sir Christopher went on to become one of the highest grossing actors of all time. And his superb eyebrow acting, many fans say, was always to be applauded. 
  
 14.30 
  
 Bryan Adams, the singer, speaks for a lot of people with this tribute he has posted on Instagram - with a picture he took of Sir Christopher in 2010. 
  
 What a sad day for the world to lose this incredible actor and human being. Christopher Lee, photo by me in 2010 #christopherlee A photo posted by @bryanadams on Jun 11, 2015 at 5:52am PDT 
  
 14.26 
  
 "Criminally underrated" is how Mark Gatiss, one of the creators of The Leage of Gentleman, described Sir Christopher. 
  
 The great, always criminally underrated Sir Christopher Lee has left us. A Titan of Cinema and a huge part of my youth. Farewell. — Mark Gatiss (@Markgatiss) June 11, 2015 
  
 14.23 
  
 Academics at De Montfort University in Leicester, home to the Hammer Film Archive, expressed their sadness at Sir Christopher's death. 
  
 Professor Steve Chibnall, director of the Cinema And Television History Research Centre at at the university, said: 
  
 As custodians of Hammer's Script Archives we were sad to learn of the death of the last of the company's most iconic stars. 
  
 "Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing were the most recognised faces of Hammer films and now we have lost both of these great actors. 
  
 "Lee was the most disturbingly believable embodiment of Count Dracula with a chilling screen presence that has never been rivalled. Vampires live beyond death and the collective memory of Lee's portrayal of Dracula will be immortal." 
  
 14.15 
  
 David Cameron, the Prime Minister, has paid tribute to Sir Christopher on Twitter - describing him as a "titan of the golden age of cinema". 
  
 PM: Saddened to hear of Sir Christopher Lee's death, a titan of Golden Age of Cinema & distinguished WW2 veteran who'll be greatly missed — UK Prime Minister (@Number10gov) June 11, 2015 
  
 14.12 
  
 As the world reacts to the death of Sir Christopher Lee, let's also spare a thought for Ron Moody's family. 
  
 The actor, most famous for playing Fagin in Oliver!, died in hospital aged 91 today. You can read a full obituary to the veteran star here and see a gallery of his career here. 
  
 Ron Moody as Fagin in Oliver! with Jack Wild as the Artful Dodger (Moviestore/REX Shutterstock) 
  
 14.06 
  
 In one picture, this sums up the breadth of Sir Christopher's remarkable career. 
  
 RIP to one of the Greatest character actors Ever... #christopherlee pic.twitter.com/pk8hSrDs2K — Ziggy (@mrjafri) June 11, 2015 
  
 14.02 
  
 Here's some sage advice for you all... 
  
 Every time you feel sad about Christopher Lee, look at this picture and it'll make you smile. pic.twitter.com/QU9sI2Igvt — AKA (@_AKA_) June 11, 2015 
  
 13.51 
  
 Dominic Monaghan, Sir Christopher Lee's co-star from Lord Of The Rings, paid tribute to a "fascinating person" as he offered a slightly strange anecdote... 
  
 So so sorry to hear that #christopherlee has passed away. He was a fascinating person. Threw a bic pen into a tree in front of me. #legend — Dominic Monaghan (@DomsWildThings) June 11, 2015 
  
 13.45 
  
 Reece Sheersmith, the League of Gentleman actor, has spoken of his sadness at the loss of an "amazing gentleman who brought us so many iconic roles". 
  
 Very upset to learn that Sir Christopher Lee has passed away. An amazing gentleman who brought us so many iconic roles. He will be missed. — Reece Shearsmith (@ReeceShearsmith) June 11, 2015 
  
 13.38 
  
 For many, Sir Christopher Lee will be remembered best for Hammer Horror, the genre that helped him first achieve fame in the 1950s. 
  
 It might have frightul acting, false fangs and flimsy nighties, but this is why we should say hurrah for Hammer - the quintessential British film studio, says film historian Sinclair McKay. 
  
 13.28 
  
 Of all the facts you might read about Sir Christopher Lee today, this might be the most unusual. Only last year, he marked his 92nd birthday by releasing a heavy metal version of the Frank Sinatra classic My Way. 
  
 It was one of seven tracks on an album called Metal Knight he recorded with an Italian band called Rhapsody Of Fire. You can listen to him in action here... 
  
 13.18 
  
 "I think acting is a mixture of instinct, imagination and inventiveness. All you can learn as an actor is basic technique." - one of the most memorable quotes from Sir Christopher Lee. 
  
 13.10 
  
 Yes, he was the finest screen Dracula we've ever seen. But there was so much more to the late Christopher Lee than monsters, says Tim Robey, as he selects his 10 best roles. 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee playing Dracula - perhaps his most famous role 
  
 13.05 
  
 Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has paid tribute to "one of the greatest British actors and a master of the macabre" with a, erm, humorous picture taken at City Hall. 
  
 Really sad to hear about the death of Christopher Lee, one of the greatest British actors and a master of the macabre pic.twitter.com/q5UUhc7xId — Boris Johnson (@MayorofLondon) June 11, 2015 
  
 13.00 
  
 Celebrities including Jonathon Ross and Paddy Considine are among those paying tribute to Sir Christopher Lee on Twitter. 
  
 So sad to hear that Sir Christiphet Lee has died. A great actor, a great star, a surprisingly good singer and a lovely lovely man. — Jonathan Ross (@wossy) June 11, 2015 
  
 A true legend has passed. Sir Christopher Lee. pic.twitter.com/MqVqxXtqda — Paddy Considine (@PaddyConsidine) June 11, 2015 
  
 12.57 
  
 Here is the death certificate that confirms the sad news that Sir Christopher Lee passed away at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital on Sunday. 
  
 12.55 
  
 An actor of aristocratic bearing who was closely identified with the role of Saruman in The Lord of the Rings and Count Dracula, here is the Telegraph's full obituary of Sir Christopher Lee. 
  
 12.50 
  
 At a glance, here you can see the highlights of a life in film from one of Britain's greatest ever actors: 
  
 12.45 
  
 Telegraph film critic Robbie Collin has written a piece celebrating the life of a man whose "talent will outlast us all": 
  
 The thing about Sir Christopher Lee being dead is that it doesn’t immediately strike you as being much of a career setback. 
  
 For as long as he was an actor (which was a very long time indeed; his first film role was a one-line part in Terence Young’s baroquely strange romance Corridor of Mirrors, in 1948), his characters have often exuded – not immortality, exactly, but a kind of ennobled deathlessness. 
  
 You always sensed they’d been around for longer than was perhaps entirely natural, and would more than likely outlast you. 
  
 12.35 
  
 In five key moments, this video showcases the very best of Christopher Lee's career: 
  
 12.31 
  
 From Count Dracula to Star Wars, Christopher Lee had one of the most varied careers in the business. We have created a gallery here of his highlights. 
  
 Christopher Lee in the The Curse of Frankenstein, 1957 
  
 12.28 
  
 Fans are beginning to express their shock on Twitter at the death of Christopher Lee: 
  
 Christopher Lee had one hell of a well lived life. — Rob Elliott (@Rob_Reddo) June 11, 2015 
  
 Gutted. Christopher Lee has died. pic.twitter.com/R5cp8pzE7H — Richard Littler (@richard_littler) June 11, 2015 
  
 Aw man, Christopher Lee has died. End of an era – he was the last of the great Hammer stars. — Andy (@ItsAndyRyan) June 11, 2015 
  
 12:18: End of an era as screen legend Sir Christopher Lee dies at 93 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee, the screen legend whose career took him from Hammer horror to Star Wars, Lord of the Rings and a role as one of the great Bond villains, has died. He was 93. 
  
 The veteran actor died at 8.30am on Sunday at London’s Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, sources close to his family said. 
  
 He had been treated there for respiratory problems and heart failure over the preceding three weeks and turned 93 in hospital. 
  
  
  
 Christopher Lee in The Man with the Golden Gun, 1974 (Everett Collection/Rex) 
  
 Lady Lee chose to delay the public announcement of Sir Christopher’s passing until she had informed close family members. The couple were married for more than 50 years. 
  
 The actor first achieved fame as a Hammer Horror star in the 1950s, but the last 15 years of his career were among the most fruitful. 
  
 He was introduced to a new generation of fans as a star of some of the world’s biggest franchises: Count Dooku in the Star Wars films, Saruman in The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. 
  
 There was also a sucessful partnership with Tim Burton in films including Alice in Wonderland and Sleepy Hollow. 
  
  
  
 Christopher Lee with Veronica Carlson in Dracula has Risen from the Grave (Rex) 
  
 Sir Christopher’s career began in the 1940s, but it was the 1958 film Dracula that made him a star. 
  
 He played Count Dracula opposite Sir Peter Cushing as Van Helsing. He and Cushing remained the closest of friends until the latter’s death in 1994. 
  
 More Dracula films followed in 1960s for the Hammer studio, but the actor was keen to move on. In a 2011 interview with the Telegraph, he said: “Please don’t describe me as a ‘horror legend’. I moved on from that.” 
  
 Sir Christopher Lee was knighted in 2009 (Abbie Trayler-Smith) 
  
 His memorable roles included Lord Summerisle in The Wicker Man (1973) and Scaramanga in The Man With The Golden Gun (1974). He had a personal connection to James Bond: Ian Fleming, Bond’s creator, was his cousin. 
  
 Sir Christopher was knighted in 2009 and received a Bafta fellowship in 2011, and said he would never retire. “I hate being idle. As dear Boris [Karloff] used to say, when I die I want to die with my boots on.” 
  
 He recently signed up for a new film, The 11th, an ensemble drama co-starring Uma Thurman. Set in the hours leading up to the attack on the Twin Towers, it was due to start filming in November. 
  
 His one remaining ambition, he said in 2011, was to work with Clint Eastwood. The film of which he was most proud was Jinnah, in which he played the founder of Pakistan. “It is certainly the most important role I have ever played, because the responsibility on my shoulders was immense,” he explained. 
  
  
  
 Christopher Lee as Saruman in The Fellowship Of The Ring (Rex) 
  
 Reluctant to think of himself as a star, the modest actor was also reticent about his Second World War record as a member of the Special Operations Executive. 
  
 “I was attached to the SAS from time to time but we are forbidden – former, present, future – to discuss any specific operations. Let’s just say I was in Special Forces and leave it at that.” 
  
 He married his wife, Birgit, known as Gitte, in 1961 and they had a daughter, Christina. Asked for the secret of a long-lived marriage, he replied: “Marry someone wonderful.” |||||