The Belfast Telegraph's exclusive about a boy who battled a brain condition, and was injured in a petrol bomb attack in Newtownabbey dominates its front page.
Speaking to the paper, the boy's mother, Danielle Thompson, explains his surgery scars were scorched by flames when the family were trying to flee their home.
She says the fire caught four-year-old Cruz's head, causing scars from one of three life-saving operations to erupt in blisters.
The Irish News goes big on a claim that five Orange Halls have been awarded grants under a controversial Stormont scheme after applying as cultural, educational or historical societies.
The paper attributes the details to the Department for Communities and says details provided by them show a pledge of £104,000 for upgrades to the halls.
The scheme has been criticised by nationalists after it emerged that dozens of loyal order and band halls were offered grants of up to £25,000.
Last week, the Irish News reported the department had also promised £25,000 to the County Antrim based Randalstown Ulster Scots Cultural Society, but the address given for the group, Number 10 Portglenone Road, Randalstown, was not listed on Royal Mail's "postal address file".
Inside, the Irish News carries a story about a County Tyrone boy who is fighting life-threatening epilepsy in the United States.
It reports Billy Caldwell, 11, is recovering after being placed in an induced coma in Los Angeles.
Cannabis oil - an illegal form of treatment in the UK - is being used by medical professionals to help lessen Billy's symptoms, the paper reports.
The Irish News also dedicates a double-page spread to reaction to President Trump's travel ban, detailing demonstrations held across the UK on Monday.
It reports growing pressure on Theresa May to say whether she was aware of Donald Trump's plans during her American visit.
The News Letter reports that a prosecution decision on a man whose palm print was allegedly found on a getaway vehicle used in the Kingsmills massacre is set to be announced within two weeks.
It says the Public Prosecution Service had written to Coroner Brian Sherrard to inform him that a decision on whether a case will be taken against the suspect is imminent.
The already long-delayed inquest into the murders of 10 Protestant workmen killed in rural south Armagh in 1976 was again put on hold last year with the dramatic announcement that detectives had apparently matched the palm print to an individual.