French court also bans Dutchman, 51, who mutilated more than 100 patients in rural Château-Chinon, from profession for life 
  
 A Dutch man nicknamed the “dentist of horror”, who mutilated more than 100 patients, has been jailed for eight years by a French court. 
  
 Jacobus van Nierop, 51, pulled out healthy teeth, broke patients’ jaws, and caused abscesses and blood poisoning in often unnecessary and painful procedures, judges were told during his trial in March. 
  
  
  
 He was charged with aggravated assault on vulnerable people and fraud over claims he tried to get money from patients and insurance companies between 2009 and 2012. 
  
  
  
 As well as the prison term, Van Nierop was banned for life from practising as a dentist. 
  
  
  
 Van Nierop, who called himself Mark, was welcomed to the rural area of Château-Chinon in 2008, after locals complained of a dearth of medical services. Criticisms of his treatment soon grew. Nicole Martin, a retired teacher, lost several teeth to abscesses caused by operations carried out under general anaesthetic. “When it was over, we would find a Post-it note saying to come back for an appointment the next day or the day after,” she said. 
  
 Sylviane Boulesteix, 65, saw Van Nierop in March 2012 to have braces fitted. “He gave me seven or eight injections, and pulled out eight teeth in one go. I was gushing blood for three days,” she told the court. 
  
 Martin set up a victims’ group in early 2013 to press charges, and it soon grew to 120 members. 
  
  
  
 Van Nierop was arrested in June 2013, but fled France pending trial. He was traced to a small town in the eastern Canadian province of New Brunswick and arrested under an international arrest warrant in September 2014. 
  
  
  
 Locals said he tried to cut his throat when police arrived. He fought his extradition, claiming he was suffering from “psychological problems” and was suicidal, but was sent to a psychiatric unit in a jail in the Loiret region, south of Paris. He was not required to plea under French law. 
  
  
  
 French psychiatrists have disagreed on his state of mind; one found he had “narcissistic tendencies” and was not responsible for his actions, but another declared Van Nierop “perfectly aware of what he was doing”. 
  
  
  
 State prosecutor Lucile Jaillon-Bru had requested an eight-year prison sentence for Van Nierop, who she said “took pleasure at causing pain”. 
  
  
  
 Jaillon-Bru told the trial in Nevers that the dentist carried out “useless and painful procedures” on about 100 patients, then had them reimbursed by the patients’ medical insurance. 
  
  ||||| Image copyright AP Image caption Prosecutors said Jacobus van Nierop took "pleasure at causing pain" 
  
 A Dutchman dubbed the "dentist of horror" has been sentenced to eight years in jail in France for mutilating the mouths of some 120 patients. 
  
 Jacobus van Nierop, 51, "took pleasure" in causing horrific injuries to patients in the small central town of Chateau-Chinon, prosecutors said. 
  
 He was banned from practising dentistry and fined €10,500 (£8,140; $11,900). 
  
 Van Nierop fled to Canada when suspicions arose and strongly fought extradition to France in 2014. 
  
 The court in the central French town of Nevers heard that patients had suffered broken jaws, recurrent abscesses and septicaemia from van Nierop's work. He had drugged patients then mutilated them as they slept in his dentist's chair. 
  
 Prosecutor Lucile Jaillon-Bru said van Nierop had carried out "useless and painful procedures". 
  
 She said his aim had been to earn money through claiming on patients' medical insurance schemes and to take "pleasure at causing pain". 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Some 120 patients came together in the case against van Nierop 
  
 Reports from inside the courtroom on Tuesday said that van Nierop had admitted responsibility, saying he "wasn't interested in people" and could not remember his patients. 
  
 One 65-year-old victim said van Nierop had pulled out eight of her teeth in one sitting, telling judges she was "gushing blood for three days... and had no teeth for a year and a half". 
  
 Van Nierop appeared to show no emotion during the trial, replying mostly with "no comment" to any questions. 
  
 His defence argued he was suffering "psychological problems". One expert said Van Nierop's "narcissistic tendencies" had stripped him of any moral judgment but another said the defendant was "perfectly aware of what he was doing", AFP news agency reports. 
  
 'Larger than life' 
  
 Van Nierop was arrested in France in June 2013, after the number of his victims passed 100. 
  
 However, he fled the country before his trial was due to start in December that year. 
  
 He was tracked to a small town in the Canadian province of New Brunswick and arrested under an international warrant. 
  
 Van Nierop was many people's worst nightmare, the BBC's Hugh Schofield says. 
  
 Like many parts of rural France, Chateau-Chinon is badly served for medical provision, our correspondent says, adding that locals initially seemed delighted by the hard-working and smiley dentist, a larger-than-life character who witnesses said was rarely seen without his "big 4x4, a big dog and a big cigar". 
  
 But then the horror stories began. People said they had had teeth ripped out for no reason - they had been given heavy anaesthetic, then left with abscesses and infected gums. |||||