Story highlights The coast guard says 40 dives are planned for Saturday 
  
 Divers have found three bodies on the third deck, the coast guard says 
  
 Capt. Lee Joon Seok has been charged in connection with the ferry's sinking 
  
 Lee says he left the helm briefly "to tend to something'' in his cabin 
  
 A South Korean captain, standing in handcuffs before reporters, defended his order to delay the evacuation of his sinking ferry, CNN affiliate YTN reported early Saturday. 
  
 The news of Lee Joon Seok's arrest in connection with the sinking that left at least 29 people dead and more than 270 missing came as divers made their way to the third deck inside the wreckage where they found three bodies, according to the South Korean coast guard. 
  
 The divers weren't able to recover the three bodies from a compartment, the coast guard said. Another 40 dives are planned for Saturday in an attempt to get inside the ferry, the coast guards' Koh Myung Seok told reporters. 
  
 Lee has been charged with abandoning his boat, negligence, causing bodily injury, not seeking rescue from other ships, and violating "seamen's law," state media reported, citing prosecutors and police 
  
 The charges against Lee appear to shed some light on what authorities have focused on in their efforts to find out what happened to the ferry making its way Wednesday from Incheon to the resort island of Jeju. It sank in frigid waters 20 kilometers (roughly 12 miles) off the coast of South Korea's southern peninsula. 
  
 "Mr. Lee is charged with causing the Sewol ship to sink by failing to slow down while sailing the narrow route and making (a) turn excessively," prosecutor Lee Bong-chang told the semi-official Yonhap news agency. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Ferry Captain charged with negligence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ferry Captain charged with negligence 02:42 
  
 JUST WATCHED Navy SEAL: 'You gotta maintain hope' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Navy SEAL: 'You gotta maintain hope' 05:19 
  
 JUST WATCHED Outrage grows after ferry sinks Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Outrage grows after ferry sinks 03:49 
  
 "Lee is also charged with failing to do the right thing to guide the passengers to escape and thereby leading to their death or injury." 
  
 If convicted, Lee faces from five years to life in prison. 
  
 A South Korean prosecutor said Lee wasn't at the helm of the Sewol when it started to sink; a third mate was at the helm. 
  
 Where was captain? 
  
 "It is not clear where he was when the accident occurred, although it is clear that he was not in the steering room before the actual accident happened," state prosecutor Jae-Eok Park said. 
  
 A crew member, described as the third mate, appeared with Lee and, like the captain, the third mate was in handcuffs. The man was identified only as Park. 
  
 It was unclear if he was one of two other crew members who authorities have said also faced arrest in connection with the sinking. 
  
 A spokesman for the joint prosecutor and police investigators declined to provide further details. 
  
 As the captain left a court hearing early Saturday, police led him to reporters, where he answered questions. 
  
 "The tidal current was strong and water temperature was cold, and there was no rescue boat," Lee told reporters, according to CNN affiliate YTN. "So I had everyone stand by and wait for the rescue boat to arrive." 
  
 Lee acknowledged that he plotted the ship's course, and then went to his cabin briefly "to tend to something." 
  
 It was then, he said, the accident happened. 
  
 The third mate, who was at the helm of the ship when Lee left, said he did not make a sharp turn. Rather, he said, "the steering turned much more than usual." 
  
 The captain was one of at least 174 people rescued soon after the Sewol began to sink, violating an "age-old rule and internationally recognized rule that a captain must stay on the vessel," maritime law attorney Jack Hickey said. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Air pockets may in survival Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Air pockets may in survival 02:39 
  
 Photos: Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative of a victim weeps as she and others stand on the deck of a boat during a visit to the site of the sunken Sewol ferry on April 15, 2015 -- one day before the one year anniversary of the disaster. Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative hands out flowers to others on the deck of a boat during a visit to the site of the sunken ferry. More than 100 relatives of victims of South Korea's Sewol ferry disaster tearfully cast flowers into the sea. Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A man hold a flower as he stands on the deck of a boat during a visit to the site of the sunken Sewol ferry, off the coast of South Korea's southern island of Jindo. Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – The mother of Sewol ferry disaster victim, Danwon High School student Lim Kyung-Bin, attends a rally to pay tribute to the victims of the ferry disaster on April 11, 2015, Seoul, South Korea. Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives of victims of the Sewol ferry disaster march across a bridge over the Han river in Seoul on April 5, 2015. More than 200 people participated in the march from Ansan city. Many of them were the parents of the 250 students who died when the overloaded ferry sank off Jindo on April 16, 2014. Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives of victims of the Sewol ferry hold portraits of victims during a rally on April 5, 2015 in Seoul. Relatives, students and citizens attended the vigil to pay tribute to the victims of the ferry disaster and demanded that the wreckage be salvaged. Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Sewol ferry captain Lee Joon-Seok was acquitted of murder, avoiding a death sentence, but was sentenced to 36 years in jail on November 11 for his role in the maritime disaster that killed more than 300. Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Shoes believed to belong to the missing and the deceased are on display at the harbor. Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Jindo harbor, where the search operation is based, has become a memorial for those who lost their lives. Yellow ribbons and photos are displayed as people come to pay their respects. Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A joint government-civilian task force is still looking for the missing, but winter is fast approaching. Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Ten are still missing from tragic ferry sinking last April, which killed more than 300. Six months later, families are still waiting for their loved ones to be found. The parents of 16-year-old Huh Da-yoon, pictured, are among them. Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – The families of the ten who remain missing have been waiting in Jindo Indoor Gymnasium since the first day. Families can watch search mission in real time on a large monitor in the gym. Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – South Korean President Park Geun-hye weeps while delivering a speech to the nation about the sunken ferry Sewol at the presidential Blue House in Seoul, South Korea, on Monday, May 19. More than 200 bodies have been found and nearly 100 people remain missing after the ferry sank April 16 off South Korea's southwest coast. Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Police in Seoul detain a protester during a march Saturday, May 17, for victims of the Sewol. Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A girl in Seoul holds a candle during a service paying tribute to the victims of the Sewol on Wednesday, April 30. Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – People pay tribute to victims at a memorial altar in Ansan, South Korea, on Tuesday, April 29. Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A police officer holds an umbrella for a relative of a missing ferry passenger Monday, April 28, in Jindo, South Korea. Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – South Korean Buddhists carry lanterns in a parade in Seoul on Saturday, April 26, to honor the memory of the dead and the safe return of the missing. Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Divers search for people in the waters near Jindo on April 26. Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – People in Ansan attend a memorial for the victims on April 26. Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A diver jumps into the sea near the sunken ferry on Friday, April 25. Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative of a passenger weeps while waiting for news of his missing loved one at a port in Jindo on April 25. Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – People attend a memorial for the victims at the Olympic Memorial Hall in Ansan on Thursday, April 24. Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Yellow ribbons honoring the victims flap in the wind as a hearse carrying a victim's body leaves Danwon High School in Ansan on April 24. Most of the people on board the ferry were high school students on their way to the resort island of Jeju. Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – People attend a memorial for the victims at Olympic Memorial Hall in Ansan. Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Search personnel dive into the sea on Wednesday, April 23. Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Flares light up the search area on Tuesday, April 22. Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – The sun sets over the site of the sunken ferry on April 22. Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative of a ferry passenger prays as she waits for news in Jindo on April 22. Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – The search for victims continues April 22 in the waters of the Yellow Sea. Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Rescue workers in Jindo carry the body of a passenger on Monday, April 21. Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Divers jump into the water on April 21 to search for passengers near the buoys that mark the site of the sunken ferry. Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Search operations continue as flares illuminate the scene near Jindo on Sunday, April 20. Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives of missing passengers grieve April 20 in Jindo. Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives of passengers look out at the sea from Jindo on April 20. Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Police officers in Jindo stand guard Saturday, April 19, to prevent relatives of the ferry's missing passengers from jumping in the water. Some relatives said they will swim to the shipwreck site and find their missing family members by themselves. Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Family members of missing passengers hug as they await news of their missing relatives at Jindo Gymnasium on April 19. Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – South Korean Navy Ship Salvage Unit members prepare to salvage the sunken ferry and search for missing people on April 19. Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Lee Joon Suk, the captain of the Sewol, is escorted to the court that issued his arrest warrant Friday, April 18, in Mokpo, South Korea. Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A woman cries as she waits for news on missing passengers April 18 in Jindo. Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A searchlight illuminates the capsized ferry on Thursday, April 17. Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A woman cries during a candlelight vigil at Danwon High School in Ansan, South Korea, on April 17. Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Family members of passengers aboard the sunken ferry gather at a gymnasium in Jindo on April 17. Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – The body of a victim is moved at a hospital in Mokpo on April 17. Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives of a passenger cry at a port in Jindo on April 17 as they wait for news on the rescue operation. Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – South Korean coast guard members and rescue teams search for passengers at the site of the sunken ferry on April 17. Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative of a passenger cries as she waits for news on Wednesday, April 16. Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Relatives check a list of survivors April 16 in Jindo. Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Rescue crews attempt to save passengers from the ferry on April 16. Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A relative waits for a missing loved one at the port in Jindo. Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Parents at Danwon High School search for names of their children among the list of survivors. Ansan is a suburb of Seoul, the South Korean capital. Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Helicopters hover over the ferry as rescue operations continue April 16. Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – Officials escort rescued passengers April 16 in Jindo. Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A passenger is helped onto a rescue boat on April 16. Hide Caption 54 of 55 Photos: South Korean ferry sinks – A passenger is rescued from the sinking ship on April 16. Hide Caption 55 of 55 
  
 "Pretty much every law, rule, regulation and standard throughout the world says that yes, the captain must stay with the ship until all personnel are safely off of the ship, certainly passengers." 
  
 Scores of ships on water, divers plunge below it 
  
 Hopes of finding the missing alive dimmed further when the entire boat became submerged Friday. Until then, part of the ship's blue-and-white hull was still poking out of the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea. 
  
 The coast guard said workers continued to pump air into the hull of the submerged ship but could not stop its descent. 
  
 Still, divers breached the hull of the sunken ferry, and two managed to enter the second deck -- the cargo deck, the South Korean coast guard said. But rough waters forced them out. They didn't find any bodies in their brief search. 
  
 The effort was still underway in earnest Saturday morning featuring helicopters circling above the water and about 120 vessels -- from large warships to fishing ships to dinghies -- in the water, in addition to the divers under it. 
  
 Four cranes also sit about 500 yards from the focal point, ready to lift the ferry if and when the order comes in. 
  
 That hasn't happened yet, though, with authorities not yet giving up on finding survivors. 
  
 Compounding the tragedy, one of those rescued -- a high school vice principal who was on board the ferry along with more than 300 students -- was found hanging from a tree, police said. 
  
 Kang Min Kyu, 52, vice principal of Ansan Danwon High School, was among the first survivors to be rescued. 
  
 Police said he apparently hanged himself, using a belt, from a tree near a gymnasium in Jindo, where distraught relatives of missing passengers have been camping. 
  
 Police confirmed a suicide note was found, but declined to release its contents. 
  
 Anger and disgust 
  
 Relatives of passengers expressed increasing disgust and anger about the lack of explanation from the captain and the pace of the rescue effort. 
  
 South Korean ferry rescue operation 
  
 JUST WATCHED Scenario shows what sinking feels like Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Scenario shows what sinking feels like 02:35 
  
 JUST WATCHED Weather hampering ferry rescue operation Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Weather hampering ferry rescue operation 02:58 
  
 JUST WATCHED Ferry tragedy: Mother haunted by decision Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ferry tragedy: Mother haunted by decision 01:13 
  
 Some have waited for days in the cold rain at a harbor in Jindo. 
  
 Others camped at a nearby gymnasium and auditorium, desperate to hear any news of their loved ones. Relatives overcome with emotion howled and screamed, but to no avail. 
  
 "Hurry up, find it faster!" one woman wailed. 
  
 Any hope for survival largely hinges on whether passengers may be in air pockets within the ship, which isn't unheard of in such cases. 
  
 In May 2013, a tugboat capsized off West Africa. Rescuers pulled out a man from 100 feet below the surface who survived 2½ days inside a 4-square-foot air pocket. 
  
 That's one reason family members aren't ready to give up hope. 
  
 Part of the frustration stems from the conflicting information reported by officials. 
  
 In the hours after the sinking, some analysts speculated the ferry may have veered off course and struck an object. But the South Korean Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries said Thursday that it had approved the boat's intended route, and the actual course did not deviate significantly. 
  
 But Kim Soo Hyeon, chief of South Korea's Yellow Sea Maritime Police Agency, later said the ship apparently deviated from its planned route but did not appear to have hit a rock. 
  
 'Ship is tilted' 
  
 The Ministry of Ocean and Fisheries released a transcript of the conversation between the ferry and center that monitors vessel traffic. 
  
 After alerting the center that the ferry was rolling, the Sewol stated that "the body of the ship is tilted to the left. Containers fell over, too." 
  
 The control center then asked if people were hurt. Impossible to confirm because it was impossible to move, the ferry responded. 
  
 The center told the ferry crew to get people ready for evacuation, and the ferry once again described how hard it was for people to move. 
  
 Adding to the pain for families, police said texts and social media messages claiming to be from missing passengers turned out to be fake. 
  
 Media outlets, including CNN, shared the texts with a wide audience. 
  
 "We will investigate people sending out these messages," said Lee Sung Yoon, head of the combined police and prosecution team. 
  
 He said authorities will go after those behind the hoaxes and will "punish them severely." ||||| MOKPO, South Korea (AP) — Fresh questions arose about whether quicker action by the captain of a doomed ferry could have saved lives, even as rescuers scrambled to find hundreds of passengers still missing Friday and feared dead. 
  
 A woman offers prayers during a candlelight vigil for the missing passengers of a sunken ferry at Danwon High School in Ansan, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. An immediate evacuation order was... (Associated Press) 
  
 Danwon High School students hold papers with messages such as "come back," "miss you," "love you" and "don't loose your hope" for their friends who are missing after Wednesday's ferry disaster at the... (Associated Press) 
  
 Blue search light cast by South Korean Coast Guard helicopter shows a sunken ferry in the water off the southern coast near Jindo, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. Fears rose Thursday for the fate... (Associated Press) 
  
 Family members of children are still missing in the sunken ferry the Sewol gather at a gymnasium in Jindo, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. Fears rose Thursday for the fate of more than 280 passengers... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - This undated file photo shows the South Korean ferry Sewol that sank Wednesday, April 16, 2014 off South Korea's southern coast with 475 people aboard, likely with scores of people trapped inside.... (Associated Press) 
  
 AP10ThingsToSee - South Korean Coast Guard officers search for missing passengers aboard a sunken ferry in the waters off the southern coast near Jindo, South Korea on Thursday, April 17, 2014. An immediate... (Associated Press) 
  
 People gather to pray with candlelights for the missing passengers of a sunken ferry at Danwon High School in Ansan, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. An immediate evacuation order was not issued... (Associated Press) 
  
 A rescue personal looks at a sea in windy and rainy day at a port in Jindo, south of Seoul, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. An immediate evacuation order was not issued for the ferry that sank... (Associated Press) 
  
 South Korean rescue team members prepare to search for passengers of a ferry sinking off South Korea's southern coast, in the water off the southern coast near Jindo, south of Seoul, South Korea, Thursday,... (Associated Press) 
  
 South Korean President Park Geun-hye speaks during a meeting with parents whose children are now missing in Ship Sewol at a gymnasium in Jindo, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. Fears rose Thursday... (Associated Press) 
  
 Lee Joon-seok, the captain of a sunken ferry in the water off the southern coast arrives to be investigated at Mokpo Police Station in Mokpo, South Korea, Thursday, April 17, 2014. An immediate evacuation... (Associated Press) 
  
 South Korean rescue team members search for passengers aboard a ferry sinking off South Korea's southern coast, in the water off the southern coast near Jindo, south of Seoul, South Korea, Thursday, April... (Associated Press) 
  
 Officials also offered a rare look at their investigations, saying they were looking into whether a crewman's order to abruptly turn the ship contributed to the 6,852-ton Sewol ferry tilting severely to the side and filling with water Wednesday. 
  
 The confirmed death toll from Wednesday's sinking off southern South Korea was 28, the coast guard said. Most of bodies have been found floating in the ocean because divers have been continually prevented from getting inside the ship by strong currents and bad weather. But 48 hours after the sinking the number of deaths was expected to rise sharply with about 270 people missing, many of them high school students on a class trip. Officials said there were 179 survivors. 
  
 New questions were raised by a transcript of a ship-to-shore exchange and interviews by The Associated Press that showed the captain delayed evacuation for half an hour after a South Korean transportation official ordered preparations to abandon ship. 
  
 The order at 9 a.m. by an unidentified official at the Jeju Vessel Traffic Services Center to put on lifejackets and prepare for evacuation came just five minutes after a Wednesday morning distress call by the Sewol ferry. Someone on the ferry, which was bound for Jeju island, replied that "it's hard for people to move." 
  
 The ship made a sharp turn between 8:48 a.m. and 8:49 a.m. Korea time, but it's not known whether the turn was made voluntarily or because of some external factor, Nam Jae-heon, a director for public relations at the Maritime Ministry, said Friday. 
  
 The captain has not spoken publicly about his decision making, and officials aren't talking much about their investigation, which includes continued talks with the captain and crew. But the new details about communication between the bridge and transportation officials follow a revelation by a crewmember in an interview with The Associated Press that the captain's eventual evacuation order came at least half an hour after the 9 a.m. distress signal. 
  
 Meanwhile, strong currents and rain made rescue attempts difficult again as they entered a third day. Divers worked in shifts to try to get into the sunken vessel, where most of the missing passengers are thought to be, said coast guard spokesman Kim Jae-in. 
  
 Coast guard officials said divers began pumping air into the ship Friday, but it wasn't immediately clear if the air was for survivors or for a salvage operation. Officials said in a statement that divers were still trying to enter the ship. 
  
 South Korean officials also offered a glimpse into their investigation of what may have led to the sinking. They said the accident happened at a point where the ferry from Incheon to Jeju had to make a turn. Prosecutor Park Jae-eok said in a briefing that investigators were looking at whether the third mate ordered a turn whose degree was so sharp that it caused the ship to list. The captain was not on the bridge at the time, Park said, adding that officials were looking at other possible causes, too. 
  
 Park also said crews' testimonies differed about where the captain was when the ship started listing. As that listing continued, the captain was "near" the bridge, Park said, but he couldn't say whether the captain was inside or right outside the bridge. 
  
 The operator of the ferry added more cabin rooms to three floors after its purchase the ship, which was built in Japan in 1994, an official at the private Korean Register of Shipping told the AP on Friday. 
  
 The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not allowed to discuss matters under investigation, said the extension work between October 2012 and February 2013 increased the Sewol's weight by 187 tons and added enough room for 117 more people. The Sewol had a capacity of 921 when it sank. 
  
 As is common in South Korea, the ship's owner, Chonghaejin Marine Co., paid for a safety check by the Korean Register of Shipping, the official said, which found that the Sewol passed all safety tests, including whether the ship could stabilize in the event of tilting to the right or to the left after adding more weight. 
  
 Ian Winkle, a British naval architect and ferry expert said many ship have such modifications, to increase capacity, for instance. "In this particular case, it would have affected the stability by a small amount, but as it seems from the structure of the vessel, generally, it looks as if it was adequate to meet statutory regulations," Winkle said. 
  
 Near the site of the ferry, angry and bewildered relatives gathered on a nearby island watched the rescue attempts. Some held a Buddhist prayer ritual, crying and praying for their relatives' safe return. 
  
 "I want to jump into the water with them," said Park Geum-san, 59, the great-aunt of another missing student, Park Ye-ji. "My loved one is under the water and it's raining. Anger is not enough." 
  
 The water temperature in the area was about 12 degrees Celsius (54 degrees Fahrenheit), cold enough to cause signs of hypothermia after about 90 minutes of exposure. 
  
 Kim, the coast guard spokesman, said two vessels with cranes arrived and would help with the rescue and to salvage the ferry, which sank not far from the southern city of Mokpo. But salvage operations hadn't started yet because of the rescue attempts. 
  
 Out of 29 crewmembers, 20 people, including the captain, Lee Joon-seok, 68, survived, the coast guard said. 
  
 The captain made a brief, videotaped appearance, although his face was hidden by a gray hoodie. "I am really sorry and deeply ashamed," Lee said. "I don't know what to say." 
  
 Kim Soo-hyun, a senior coast guard official, said officials were investigating whether the captain got on one of the first rescue boats. 
  
 The 146-meter (480-foot) Sewol had left Incheon on the northwestern coast of South Korea on Tuesday for the overnight journey to the southern resort island of Jeju. There were 475 people aboard, including 325 students from Danwon High School in Ansan, which is near Seoul, 
  
 It was three hours from its destination Wednesday morning when it began to list for an unknown reason. 
  
 Oh Yong-seok, a helmsman on the ferry with 10 years of shipping experience, said that when the crew gathered on the bridge and sent a distress call, the ship was already listing more than 5 degrees, the critical angle at which a vessel can be brought back to even keel. 
  
 The first instructions from the captain were for passengers to put on life jackets and stay where they were, Oh said. 
  
 A third mate reported that the ship could not be righted, and the captain ordered another attempt, which also failed, Oh said. A crew member then tried to reach a lifeboat but fell because the vessel was tilting, prompting the first mate to suggest to the captain that he order an evacuation, Oh said. 
  
 About 30 minutes after passengers were told to stay in place, the captain finally gave the order to evacuate, Oh said, adding that he wasn't sure that in the confusion and chaos on the bridge if the order was relayed to the passengers. Several survivors told the AP that they never heard any evacuation order. 
  
 By then, it was impossible for crew members to move to passengers' rooms to help them because the ship was tilted at an impossibly acute angle, he said. The delay in evacuation also likely prevented lifeboats from being deployed. 
  
 "We couldn't even move one step. The slope was too big," said Oh, who escaped with about a dozen others, including the captain. 
  
 The last major ferry disaster in South Korea was in 1993, when 292 people were killed. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Klug reported from Seoul. Associated Press writers Hyung-jin Kim in Ansan and Jung-yoon Choi in Seoul contributed to this report. ||||| JINDO, South Korea — The captain was among the first to flee. Only a couple of the 44 life rafts aboard were deployed. The hundreds of passengers were instructed over the intercom to “stay inside and wait” as the ship leaned to one side and began to sink, dragging scores of students down with it. 
  
 “I repeatedly told people to calm themselves and stay where they were for an hour,” Kang Hae-seong, the communications officer on the South Korean ferry that sank on Wednesday, said from his hospital bed. He added that he could not recall taking part in any evacuation drills for the ship, and that when a real emergency came, “I didn’t have time to look at the manual for evacuation.” 
  
 It took two and a half hours for the ferry, the Sewol, to capsize and become submerged in the blue-gray waters off the southwestern tip of South Korea. Yet in that time, only 179 of the 475 people believed to have been on board were rescued. By Thursday evening, the confirmed death toll was 25. 
  
 By Friday, the vessel was completely submerged. But rescue divers, after two days of futile attempts, succeeded in swimming into the ship, though it was unclear how far they were able to enter. Rescuers were using high-pressure hoses to pump oxygen inside the ship, in the hope that some of the 271 people still missing, most of them students, might have survived in air pockets inside the overturned vessel. 
  
 Continue reading the main story Video 
  
 As those efforts continued, evidence was growing that human error contributed to the accident, one of South Korea’s worst disasters in recent decades. 
  
 Kim Su-hyun, a provincial coast guard chief, told reporters on Thursday that the ship’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, stood accused of violating his responsibilities by abandoning the ferry ahead of most of his passengers. Coast guard officials who questioned Mr. Lee on Thursday said they were reviewing possible criminal charges, while the police said they were investigating whether he had escaped aboard one of the few life rafts used. 
  
 On Friday, Park Jae-uk, a senior investigator, said that Mr. Lee was not on the bridge at the time of the accident and left control of the ship to his third mate. “We are investigating where exactly he was at the time,” Mr. Park added. 
  
 Mr. Lee made a brief appearance before reporters on Thursday. “I can’t lift my face before the passengers and family members of those missing,” he said. But he provided little clarity on what led the 6,825-ton Sewol to lean so far to its side before sinking, and why so many aboard had been unable to escape. 
  
 For some maritime experts, the captain’s decision to abandon the ship and the crew’s emergency performance seemed to echo problems in the wreck of the Costa Concordia, an Italian cruise ship that ran aground in 2012, killing 32 people. 
  
 James T. Shirley Jr., an accident investigator in Newtown, Pa., said that in the two and a half hours it took the ship to sink, the crew “certainly had enough time to get most of the people off.” 
  
 Photo 
  
 “I don’t understand why the crew would be instructing passengers to stay inside the ship,” Mr. Shirley said. “I would think that if nothing else, they would be getting them outside with life jackets on so if it sank, they could at least get into the cold water with their jackets.” 
  
 Capt. William H. Doherty, a maritime safety expert at Nexus Consulting Group who commanded Navy and merchant ships, said there was “clearly a breakdown in safety training” on the South Korean ferry, a failure he said could be attributed to its officers and to Korean regulators. 
  
 Continue reading the main story Advertisement 
  
 “When they issued a safety certification for the ship, they had to certify that the crew was trained,” Captain Doherty said, noting the communications officer’s admission that he had not taken part in an evacuation drill. “You have to satisfy yourself that this crew is trained in all emergency situations.” 
  
 For the 325 students from Danwon High School who made up the bulk of the passengers, it was a trip they had been eagerly awaiting, a last chance for fun before a grueling year of studying for South Korea’s university entrance exam. Soon after the ferry left the port of Incheon on Tuesday night bound for the resort island of Jeju, they celebrated by launching fireworks from the deck. 
  
 According to survivors, the students were having a morning break after breakfast on Wednesday, roaming through the floors and snapping pictures on the deck, when the ship began tilting. 
  
 When the situation became critical, survivors said, many students were still on the third floor, where the cafeteria and game rooms were. 
  
 Continue reading the main story NORTH KOREA Seoul Incheon SOUTH KOREA Yellow Sea Ferry route JINDO Approximate site of ferry sinking JEJU 50 MILES 
  
 “I don’t remember that there was any safety instruction before we boarded the ship,” said Kim Su-bin, 16, a Danwon student who survived by climbing out of the sinking ship and jumping into the water. “Life jackets were on the fourth floor where the sleeping cabins were, but those who were on the third floor at the time had no life jackets.” 
  
 Investigators said the Sewol appeared to have made a sharp turn to the left around the time it began to tilt. It had been sailing slightly off its usual course, they said. It was unclear why such a turn was tried in waters known for their strong currents, or why the turn had caused the ship to lean. 
  
 Inside the ferry, chaos unfolded, survivors said, as the walls and floor seemed to exchange positions. Bottles and dishes fell. The ship’s twisting stairways became almost impossible to negotiate. Passengers were tossed to one side. Trays and soup bowls overturned, said Song Ji-cheol, a college student who worked part-time in the cafeteria. 
  
 “All of a sudden, we were submerged,” he said. “I tried to hold on to the tables, but they were moving around, too.” 
  
 At some point, survivors said, the lights went out. 
  
 “When the ship began tilting, there was a thudding noise, and I thought it was the noise made by students bumping into the walls,” Han Hee-min said on Thursday in a hospital in Ansan, the city south of Seoul where Danwon High School is. “I had a life jacket, so I floated. Some friends grabbed my leg, and I don’t know what happened to them.” 
  
 Continue reading the main story Video 
  
 Grainy video footage taken with a smartphone and sent to a relative showed frightened passengers huddled in a corner as a voice on the ship’s intercom urged people to “stay inside and wait because the cabins are safer.” Gwon Ji-hyuck, 16, said he had heard that broadcast as well. 
  
 Han Sang-hyuk, 16, blamed the crew’s instructions for the high number of missing people, saying that those who stayed in their rooms or were caught in small alleyways between corridors would not have been able to escape. 
  
 The communications officer, Mr. Kang, 32, said that he and another crew member had been forced to make a quick decision. They thought that if passengers fled in a panicked rush, it could make matters worse, he said. 
  
 Shin Seong-hee, a Danwon student, was among those who heeded the advice. In a text message she sent to her father, she said the crew had told her that “it was more dangerous to move.” 
  
 Her father texted back, “I know the rescuers are coming but why don’t you try to come outside?” 
  
 “I can’t because the ship is tilting too much,” she said, in a text displayed by her sister. Ms. Shin has not been heard from since. 
  
 Some survivors gave accounts of professionalism and self-sacrifice by crew members. Kim Su-bin, the Danwon student who climbed out and jumped into the water, thanked Park Ji-young, a crew member who was found dead on Wednesday, for calming students and staying behind without a life jacket after helping students escape. 
  
 “Bring my child back alive!” some parents yelled on Thursday when President Park Geun-hye visited a gymnasium that local officials had turned into a shelter for grieving families. Ms. Park promised “all available resources” for the rescue efforts, and “a thorough investigation and stern punishment for those responsible.” 
  
 An editorial in the country’s leading conservative daily newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, which has been mostly supportive of Ms. Park’s government, denounced it for “floundering.” 
  
 “Above all, the people must have felt deeply that South Korea is a country that doesn’t value human lives,” it said. “Hundreds of passengers sank with the ship, but its captain and most of its crew came out alive.” ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Martin Patience described the scene as three more bodies were recovered 
  
 The third officer was at the helm of the ferry that capsized off South Korea, investigators said, as divers worked to access the sunken hull. 
  
 A total of 268 people - including scores of high school students - remain missing after Wednesday's disaster. 
  
 Twenty-eight people are now known to have died and 179 were rescued. 
  
 It is not clear why the ferry sank, but experts have suggested it either hit a rock or turned sharply, unbalancing the vessel as cargo shifted. 
  
 The vessel - named Sewol - had been travelling from Incheon, in the north-west, to the southern resort island of Jeju. It capsized and sank within a period of two hours, officials said. 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption The ferry sank within two hours - it is still not clear why it capsized 
  
 A major search and rescue operation has been under way. Bad weather, poor visibility and strong currents hampered the divers' search on Thursday. 
  
 Salvage work 
  
 Some of the divers have managed to enter the cargo bay of the ship, a coast guard official confirmed in a press conference on Friday. 
  
 At the scene Dozens of ambulances have arrived at the port - a sign, perhaps, that this massive operation is about to enter a grim new phrase. Just after midday local time a coast guard boat drew into the port. Three bodies were then offloaded onto a small pier. They were then carried from the pier through a police cordon to ambulances that ferried them onwards to the morgue. This is the third day of the search and rescue operation. Many of the relatives of the missing are angry about the government's handling of this operation. I saw one man shouting at the police demanding to know why oxygen tanks sitting on the portside were not being loaded on to boats and taken to the scene of the stricken ferry - around 20km away. The coast guard has continued to take relatives on boats to where the ferry sank. I saw around 20 or so boarding one vessel for what must be the most harrowing voyage of their lives. 
  
 But they could not identify or rescue any people due to items obstructing the way, the unnamed official added. 
  
 Air was also now being injected into the ship to help any people trapped inside - though officials have said that survivors are unlikely - and to help refloat the vessel. 
  
 Coast guard officials, quoted by AFP, say the bodies picked up were found floating in the water, and none had been retrieved from the ship itself. 
  
 Three salvage cranes have also arrived at the scene, to raise the ship or move it to another area with weaker currents. 
  
 Our correspondent at the scene described "an absolutely desperate development for the families" as three more bodies were brought in from the rescue site on Friday. 
  
 "We will review the options very carefully, as the salvage operations may hurt survivors trapped inside," Yonhap news agency quoted a coast guard officer as saying. 
  
 Meanwhile, investigators have stated that the captain of the ferry, Lee Joon-seok, was not in charge when the ferry ran into trouble. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Relatives of those on board have been enduring an agonising wait for news 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Dozens of ships and hundreds of divers have been brought into the search effort 
  
 "It was the third officer who was in command of steering the ship when the accident took place," state prosecutor Park Jae-Eok told journalists. 
  
 "Whether or not they took a drastic turnaround... is under investigation," he said. 
  
 "Though surviving crews have different testimonies about the situation, we've been investigating the captain as he was suspected to leave the steering room for an unknown reason," Mr Park added. 
  
 It is not unusual for the captain to leave the bridge, former ferry Captain Malcolm Shakesby has told the BBC. 
  
 Maritime accidents in South Korea 1970: Sinking of passenger vessel Namyoung leaves 323 dead 
  
 1993: Sinking of passenger vessel Seohae Ferry leaves 292 dead 
  
 2007: Sinking of freighter Eastern Bright leaving 14 sailors missing 
  
 2009: Sinking of cargo ship Orchid Pia after a collision leaves 16 sailors missing Source: Yonhap news agency 
  
 "Depending on whether or not is was in pilotage waters, then yes, the master would be expected to be on the bridge, but if it wasn't in pilotage waters it's a common practice for one of the officers to be doing navigation," he added. 
  
 In a separate development, reports say the vice principal of Danwon High School, who was rescued from the ferry, was found dead on Friday. 
  
 Yonhap news agency quotes police as saying Kang Min-Kyu, 52, was found hanging from a tree near the gym where many of the relatives of missing passengers have been staying. 
  
 Witnesses have accused the crew of telling passengers to remain where they were, rather than evacuate the sinking ship. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The regional coastguard said that bad weather, poor visibility and strong currents hampered the divers' search on Thursday 
  
 Messages and phone calls from those inside painted a picture of people trapped in crowded corridors, unable to escape the severely-listing ferry. 
  
 Some 350 of those on board were students from the same high school in a suburb of Seoul who were on a field trip. 
  
 Their relatives have endured a long wait for news - their anguish compounded by conflicting information about numbers of survivors issued early on. 
  
 In a public statement issued on Friday, families of the missing called for more urgent action. 
  
 "Nobody told us about what went wrong and what was happening out there. There was not even a situation room in charge by late Wednesday," a representative said. 
  
 "Our children would be shouting for help in the freezing water," he said. "Please help us save our children." ||||| SEOUL, April 18 (Reuters) - The third officer was at the helm of a South Korean ferry when it capsized on Wednesday with 475 people on board, an investigating prosecutor told a news conference on Friday, and the captain may not even have been on the bridge at the time. 
  
 "He may have been off the bridge ... and the person at the helm at the time was the third officer," the investigator said. 
  
 (Reporting by David Chance; Editing by Paul Tait) |||||