Kenya's foreign minister had said a British woman was thought to be among the militants who killed 67 people.
Her comments fuelled speculation that British terror suspect Samantha Lewthwaite may have been involved.
But in a Twitter post al-Shabab said it "categorically denies" the involvement of any women.
"We have an adequate number of young men who are fully committed and we do not employ our sisters in such military operations," the group said.
Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta said in a TV address on Tuesday that the four-day siege at the Westgate shopping centre had come to an end.
He confirmed that 61 civilians and six soldiers had died in the attack.
Six Britons are among the dead, and citizens from France, Canada, the Netherlands, Australia, Peru, India, Ghana, South Africa and China were also killed.
Mr Kenyatta said five of the attackers were shot dead by troops and another 11 suspects were in custody.
Kenyan Foreign Minister Amina Mohamed had said in an interview for US TV on Monday that a British woman appeared to have been involved in the attack "and I think she has done this many times before".
Mr Kenyatta also said intelligence reports suggested possible involvement of a British woman and "two or three" Americans citizens.
Profile:  Samantha Lewthwaite
He added: "We cannot confirm the details at present but forensic experts are working to ascertain the nationalities of the terrorists."
Earlier at a press conference in Pakistan, Home Secretary Theresa May said she was aware that there had been reports of a British woman being involved, but "until we have seen the investigations completed it is not possible to give further details to confirm or deny that issue".
Ms Mohamed's comments led to speculation about the possible involvement in the attack of British terror suspect Ms Lewthwaite - the widow of 7 July suicide bomber Germaine Lindsay.
She is known to be in East Africa and is wanted by Kenyan police over alleged links to a terrorist cell that planned to bomb the country's coast.
Al-Shabab has claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it had been carried out in retaliation for Kenyan army operations in Somalia.
The attack began at about 12:00 local time (10:00 BST) on Saturday, as the shopping centre was entered by militants throwing grenades and firing automatic weapons.
The next of kin of the six British victims have been informed and are being offered consular support, the Foreign Office (FCO) said.
The Metropolitan Police said a team of officers had travelled to Nairobi to help with "post-incident procedures" including gathering scientific evidence and supporting the work of British coroners.
While the names of the British victims have not been officially confirmed by the Foreign Office, Louis Bawa, of Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, told the Daily Telegraph his Kenyan-born wife Zahira and his eight-year-old daughter Jennah had been killed.
Mr Bawa said his "heart just stopped" as he looked through photographs of the victims and identified his wife and daughter.
Architect Ross Langdon, who had British-Australian citizenship, has also been named as one of the UK victims.
Mr Langdon died alongside his partner, Elif Yavuz, a Dutch citizen who was pregnant with their first child.