Kenny Miller slid in to convert James Tavernier's cross and put the home side ahead early on.
Moussa Dembele's powerful shot from a Scott Sinclair corner flashed high into the net to bring Celtic level, and Dembele later fired against the bar.
The visitors dominated the second half, and Sinclair touched home Stuart Armstrong's low cross for the winner.
Mark Warburton's hosts showed from the outset their intention was to press their opponents in wide areas, and it paid dividends when Josh Windass released Tavernier to set up Miller's close-range finish.
Celtic continued to concede too much space in the full-back areas, and further deliveries troubled goalkeeper Craig Gordon and his defence.
However, Dembele's leveller put Celtic into the ascendancy and Rangers then struggled to get Barrie McKay and Tavernier on the ball, though McKay did draw a save from Gordon after the break.
Having struggled to get a telling delivery at set-pieces, Rangers may have gone ahead just before Celtic's second as Danny Wilson met Tavernier's corner, Gordon making the save.
Summer signings Dembele and Sinclair had run the Rangers defence ragged in September's 5-1 win at Celtic Park, and the duo's link-up play was again the catalyst as the visitors recovered from their early setback.
Sinclair's set-piece was controlled and rattled into the top-right corner by Celtic's top scorer Dembele - a fifth goal against Rangers for the Frenchman this season.
And he should have taken that tally to six after Mikael Lustig squared the ball to the striker early in the second period, a miskick allowing Wes Foderingham to save.
Foderingham came to Rangers' rescue when James Forrest was played in on goal by Stuart Armstrong but Sinclair would ensure a happy end to 2016 for his team, applying the finish to Armstrong's piercing ball across the face of goal.
Armstrong, Sinclair and substitute Nir Bitton forced further saves from Foderingham as Rangers continued to struggle in defence.
In a match of so many chances, it was a surprise there were only three goals.
Sinclair fired against the right-hand post as Celtic trailed, and Dembele's downward volley bounced up on to the crossbar at 1-1, with Sinclair firing the rebound wide.
And, after Sinclair had netted, Rangers were also left frustrated by the goal frame as Miller's shot came back off the same post Sinclair had hit in the opening half.
The Scottish Premiership enters its winter break for the early part of January and Celtic can extend their advantage at the top to 22 points if they win their game in hand against St Johnstone near the end of next month.
The league leaders, who have won 15 Premiership matches in a row and have only dropped two points all season, are targeting a sixth straight top-flight title win and a first under manager Brendan Rodgers.
For Rangers, they suffer their first competitive home defeat since September 2015 and face a battle to hold on to second place with Aberdeen, who have a game in hand, two points behind them.
Match ends, Rangers 1, Celtic 2.
Second Half ends, Rangers 1, Celtic 2.
Corner,  Rangers. Conceded by Mikael Lustig.
Andy Halliday (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Stuart Armstrong (Celtic).
Attempt saved. Andy Halliday (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Barrie McKay.
Danny Wilson (Rangers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Danny Wilson (Rangers).
Moussa Dembele (Celtic) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Danny Wilson.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Danny Wilson.
James Tavernier (Rangers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by James Tavernier (Rangers).
Moussa Dembele (Celtic) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Rob Kiernan.
Foul by Martyn Waghorn (Rangers).
Stuart Armstrong (Celtic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Nir Bitton (Celtic) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Celtic. Nir Bitton replaces Callum McGregor.
Attempt missed. Rob Kiernan (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Corner,  Rangers. Conceded by Scott Brown.
Attempt saved. Scott Sinclair (Celtic) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top right corner.
Attempt saved. Stuart Armstrong (Celtic) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Rangers. Harry Forrester replaces Jason Holt.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Wes Foderingham.
Attempt saved. Stuart Armstrong (Celtic) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Kenny Miller (Rangers) hits the left post with a right footed shot from the centre of the box.
Corner,  Celtic. Conceded by Barrie McKay.
Attempt saved. Stuart Armstrong (Celtic) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Barrie McKay (Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Patrick Roberts (Celtic).
Foul by Martyn Waghorn (Rangers).
Scott Brown (Celtic) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Rob Kiernan (Rangers).
Scott Sinclair (Celtic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Barrie McKay (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Emilio Izaguirre (Celtic).
Goal!  Rangers 1, Celtic 2. Scott Sinclair (Celtic) left footed shot from the left side of the six yard box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Stuart Armstrong.
Attempt saved. Danny Wilson (Rangers) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.