Newt Gingrich got visibly worked up in response to a question about the Occupy Wall Street protests. 
  
 He attacked the idea that Wall Street bankers should go to jail for the economic crisis, calling out D.C. regulators – including former Connecticut Sen. Chris Dodd and Massachusetts Rep. Barney Frank by name. 
  
 “If you want to put people in jail, you ought to start with Barney Frank and Chris Dodd,” he said, pointing to Dodd’s cozy relationship with the lender Countrywide and Frank’s relationship with Fannie Mae lobbyists. 
  
 And that’s when he really his stride. 
  
 “I don't see anybody in the news media demanding in the Fed the same kind of transparency” we expect from government, said an exercised Gingrich. ||||| Presidential challenger Mitt Romney accused President Barack Obama of failing to lead in a time of economic peril but sounded less conservative than his Republican rivals in their debate Tuesday night, defending the 2008-2009 Wall Street bailout and declaring he could work with "good" Democrats. 
  
 Republican presidential candidates businessman Herman Cain answers a question as Texas Gov. Rick Perry looks on during a Republican presidential debate at Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H., Tuesday night,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Republican presidential candidate Texas Gov. Rick Perry, left, speaks to former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, right, as businessman Herman Cain, center, listens during a Republican presidential debate... (Associated Press) 
  
 Republican presidential candidate former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, makes a point as Rep. Ron Paul, R-Texas, and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum listen during a presidential debate at Dartmouth... (Associated Press) 
  
 Romney also gave one of his most spirited defenses of his health care initiative when he was Massachusetts governor, legislation that Obama has called a partial blueprint for his own national overhaul. By positioning himself closer to the political center on several points, Romney sought to underscore his claim that he can draw crucial independent voters in next year's general election. 
  
 His chief rival, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, seemed less sure-footed. He repeated his main talking points about free enterprise but did little to dent Romney. 
  
 Former pizza company executive Herman Cain, who has climbed in polls lately, got more air time than usual. He repeatedly touted his call for replacing the U.S. tax code with a 9 percent national sales tax and a 9 percent levy on personal and corporate income. 
  
 Meanwhile Tuesday, Obama defended his economic policies and criticized his Republican foes in a visit to the general election battleground of Pennsylvania. 
  
 And, hours before the candidates met in Hanover, Romney picked up New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's endorsement. Romney hopes it will help cement his support among the GOP establishment and nurture an image that he's the party's inevitable nominee. 
  
 Romney seemed happy to play the part of front-runner in the nearly two-hour debate, sponsored by Bloomberg News and The Washington Post. He joked breezily with the moderators, chided Perry for interrupting him and ignored the Texan when quizzing other contenders. 
  
 Romney's strategy might carry some risks in a Republican primary process that's dominated by staunch conservatives, especially in the early voting states of Iowa and South Carolina. The Wall Street bailout is a sore point with many such voters. 
  
 But Romney seemed to sail through the debate largely unscathed, with Cain and Perry scoring few direct hits. The sharpest criticism of his bailout remarks came from former Sen. Rick Santorum, who lags in the polls. 
  
 Romney said no one likes the idea of bailing out big Wall Street firms. However, he said, many of the actions taken in 2008 and 2009 were needed to keep the dollar's value from plummeting and "to make sure that we didn't all lose our jobs." The nation was on a precipice, Romney said, "and we could have had a complete meltdown." 
  
 Romney, however, said he disagreed with Obama's actions to shore up General Motors and Chrysler. The administration says the moves were highly successful and much of the federal money has been repaid. 
  
 Romney said he would work with "good" Democrats to lead the country out of economic crisis. He said that's what he did as Massachusetts governor and what he would do if he wins the White House. 
  
 Perry was not asked about the bailouts, but his campaign distributed his past statements saying "government should not be in the business of using taxpayer dollars to bail out corporate America." 
  
 Perry said the government must open the way for more production of domestic energy sources. The nation must "pull back those regulations that are strangling American entrepreneurship," he said. 
  
 He pressed Romney on his decision as Massachusetts governor to require residents to obtain health insurance, a central component of Obama's federal plan. 
  
 "I'm proud of the fact that we took on a major problem in my state," Romney said. Eight percent of Massachusetts residents were uninsured, he said, and they took advantage of others who covered their costs at emergency rooms. 
  
 Romney said Obama's national plan differed from his state plan because Obama raised taxes and cut Medicare. 
  
 Romney then turned the issue against Perry. "We have the lowest number of kids who are uninsured of any state in America," he said. "You have the highest" in Texas. 
  
 Given a chance to assail Wall Street, Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann blamed too much regulation for the sluggish economy. She also said Obama wants to let Medicare collapse, pushing everyone into "Obamacare," the health overhaul passed by congressional Democrats in 2010. 
  
 Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Americans have a right to be angry about the economy. He said the solution is firing Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. 
  
 When Cain praised former Fed chairman Alan Greenspan, Rep. Ron Paul retorted that Greenspan was "a disaster." Paul, the most libertarian of the eight candidates, has called for eliminating the Federal Reserve. 
  
 For much of the debate, which focused solely on the economy, the candidates stuck to their economic messages and kept their criticism turned on Obama. The verbal fistfights of the three previous debates didn't occur Tuesday night, even though the first primaries and caucuses are less than 100 days away. 
  
 The question of the candidates' religious affiliations, a hot topic in the past few days, came up only in a light-hearted way. Former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman joked that he wouldn't raise the issue with Romney, a fellow Mormon. 
  
 "Sorry, Rick," he said to Perry. A Perry supporter last week said that Mormons are not Christians. 
  
 Even when the candidates were given the chance to ask each other questions, the exchanges were cordial. 
  
 Three candidates in a row _ Cain, Gingrich and Huntsman _ directed their questions to Romney, underscoring his perch as the Republican to beat. In each case, Romney avoided appearing defensive or testy. 
  
 Romney directed his question to Bachmann. His choice seemed to suggest that he doesn't see Perry or Cain as dire threats, and it might play well with female voters and with staunch conservatives in Iowa, where Perry needs to do well. ||||| Call this one the stay-on-message debate. 
  
 The candidates stuck to their talking points in Hanover, N.H.. The moderators focused narrowly on the subject of the economy. Herman Cain talked about his “9-9-9” plan – a lot. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset Opponents pile on 9-9-9 plan 1213456468001 POLITICO 44 
  
 In an exceedingly well-mannered debate, it was Cain and his catch phrase-driven campaign that drew much of the attention on stage. 
  
 Cain has thrilled Republican primary voters with his proposal to toss out the U.S. tax code and replace it with 9 percent taxes on business, income and sales. And with the former Godfather’s Pizza CEO riding high in the polls, for the first time, some of his opponents tried to blunt his political momentum. 
  
 “How many people here are for a sales tax in New Hampshire?” Rick Santorum asked the debate audience at Dartmouth College, drawing little response. “There you go, Herman. That’s how many votes you’ll get in New Hampshire.” 
  
 Jon Huntsman was also dismissive of Cain’s plan, jabbing: “I thought it was the price of a pizza.” 
  
 Michele Bachmann even joked that turning the “9-9-9” plan upside down would show that “the devil is in the details” – a crack about the symbolic sign of the symbolic satanic number “666.” 
  
 Cain was unflappable, saying that his opponents were thinking too small. 
  
 “They want to pass what they think they can get passed, rather than what we need, which is a bold solution,” he said. 
  
 Compared to the Republican presidential debate season, however, the Washington Post/Bloomberg News debate was a polite, substantive affair lacking in the kind of moments likely to change the direction of the GOP primary. 
  
 And for all the expectations that Cain would come under a harsher spotlight Tuesday, thanks to his Florida straw poll victory and swift rise in national polls, the businessman did not appear to break a sweat. 
  
 Nor did any of the other presidential candidates, a group rounded out by Mitt Romney, Rick Perry, Ron Paul and Newt Gingrich. 
  
 A placid debate like this one is most helpful to Romney, who has regained his national frontrunner as Perry has stumbled in the polls. The former Massachusetts governor won a high-profile endorsement earlier Tuesday from New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie – a development likely to overshadow the low-drama debate. 
  
 After three back-to-back debates featuring harsh attacks between Romney and Perry, the two avoided each other for nearly the entire evening. 
  
 In the only direct exchange between the two, Perry challenged Romney to defend his Massachusetts health care law from charges that it’s identical to the Democratic-backed Affordable Care Act. 
  
 Romney said he was “proud” of his universal health care law and fired back a well prepared jab at Perry’s own health care record. 
  
 “We have the lowest number of kids uninsured … of any state in America,” Romney said. “You have the highest.” 
  
 He continued: “We have less than 1 percent of our kids who are uninsured. You have a million kids.” 
  
 Perry’s performance may have been most notable for the swipe he didn’t take. When one of the moderators pressed Romney to defend the 2008 Wall Street bailouts – which Romney supported and Perry opposed – the Texas governor didn’t jump in. 
  
 Indeed, Perry seemed content to run out the clock on the debate, which was the second to last in the five-debate series that started after Labor Day. 
  
 His campaign has hinted that Perry intends to gain his footing against Romney over a longer period of time and outside the format of debates. The Texas governor, who raised $17 million last quarter, may find paid media to be a more useful campaign tool. 
  
 Even without pressure from Perry, Romney defended the Troubled Assets Relief Program as an imperfect fix for a country “on the precipice [of] a complete meltdown of our entire financial system.” 
  
 “Was it perfect? No,” said Romney, adding: “Should they have used the funds to bail out General Motors and Chrysler? No, that was the wrong source for that funding.” 
  
 That last comment could have resonance in a general election, when Democrats will seek to portray Republicans as hostile to the auto industry on which several Midwestern states depend. 
  
 In the context of the GOP primary, the consequences are likely to be minimal. 
  
 What’s more, Cain stepped in to back up Romney’s position on TARP, which he also supported. 
  
 “The implementation was at fault,” Cain said. ||||| This year, the primary debates have been more important in shaping the race than they have been in past elections, The Wall Street Journal's Fred Barnes writes. Speeches, policy papers, endorsements have been ignored, Barnes writes, but the six debates since May have drawn huge audiences -- 6 million TV viewers for the Fox News debate last month, plus 6 million more online. That means a lot of people will be paying attention to tonight's debate at Dartmouth in New Hampshire, which will offer a struggling Rick Perry a chance to redeem himself and Herman Cain a chance to prove he's not a novelty act. We're liveblogging the event below. 
  
 The Wall Street Journal's Jonathan Weisman reports that the format -- a roundtable led by Charlie Rose and focused on economic issues -- will encourage a deeper look at the details of each candidate's policy proposals. They should be asked how they'll fix the housing market, and what they think about Occupy Wall Street, he writes. Here are some of the things we'll be watching for: 
  
 Can Cain defend his 9-9-9 plan? Cain has a pretty radical plan to overhaul the tax code, and so far, he's deflected questions that it would put a much bigger burden on poor people and increase the deficit. Cain should be pushed to talk about how his plan would really affect the country. 
  
 Can Perry explain how he'd grow jobs nationwide? Perry has a strong jobs record in Texas, but his campaign hasn't yet released an economic plan for how he'd replicate that success for the whole country. 
  
 Will Perry be battered or ignored? Thanks to his drop in many polls, Perry won't be sitting at the center of the stage this time -- he's been pushed to the side in favor of Cain. Cain has said Perry isn't worth attacking -- he's going after Mitt Romney. The Washington Post's Thanks to his drop in many polls, Perry won't be sitting at the center of the stage this time -- he's been pushed to the side in favor of Cain. Cain has said Perry isn't worth attacking -- he's going after Mitt Romney. The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza says this could mean Perry will do better with the pressure off -- or that he won't get enough airtime to be able to explain himself. 
  
 Can Bachmann steal some attention? Bachmann did very well in her first debate performances, but hasn't been able to keep the momentum going. Her aides Bachmann did very well in her first debate performances, but hasn't been able to keep the momentum going. Her aides say she performs best when she can contrast her conservatism with whatever's going on in Washington -- and lack of action on President Obama's jobs bill has made it harder for her to do that. The Senate's vote on the bill tonight could give her something to talk about. 
  
 Will Mitt Romney shine? The economy is suppose to be his issue. Romney's put out a The economy is suppose to be his issue. Romney's put out a 59-point economic plan -- that's way more points than everyone else's plan, but it's definitely not as catchy. If Romney can't win over skeptical Republican voters on this issue, how can he ever get them on his side? 
  
 We'll be back at 7p.m. to liveblog the event. 
  
 Updates: 
  
 10:31p.m.: What did we learn? Cain found out that being the hottest new Not Mitt Romney candidate is What did we learn? Cain found out that being the hottest new Not Mitt Romney candidate is not so easy . He also loves secrets. Perry, who entered the race with so much swag, is easily forgotten now that he's not in the top two in polls. Mitt Romney is learning how to act natural but only sometimes succeeding. Newt Gingrich wants to lock up Sen. Chris Dodd for his role in financial regulatory reform, instead of bankers for their role in the financial crisis, as the Occupy Wall Street protesters are demanding. Hunstman is still running to be President of Media. His daughters are hoping their prolific tweeting will get them some kind of cabinet-level appointment 
  
 As for the pre-debate questions we posed, the answers are: Yes, Cain was asked to get specific about his 9-9-9 plan, but no, he was not willing to go into those details. No, Perry didn't explain his economic plan -- he only promised that one was coming. And the lack of attention hurt him -- the Texan was basically ignored. Yes, Bachmann was able to steal some of the spotlight from the guys, and she seemed more serious -- no mention of vaccines causing retardation. Romney performed well, as expected. 
  
 10:20p.m.: Debate commentary has been overloaded with Debate commentary has been overloaded with references to Animal House, which was supposedly based on college life at Dartmouth, the site of the debate. Remarkably, Rick Perry's post-debate party at a frat house is not a joke. As The Atlantic's Garance Franke-Ruta pointed out, "The Rick Perry Debate watch party at Beta Theta Pi" is a real thing. The Weekly Standard's John McCormack reports that the Beta boys are loving the governor. "Too bad there are only 75 people here," he notes. 
  
 10:11p.m.: Quick reactions: 
  
 Politico's Jonathan Martin: "Did Paul use Richard Nixon's make-up guy tonite?" 
  
 The New Yorker's Ryan Lizza: "Now that Perry is mortally wounded, the next week will be about the complete destruction of Herman Cain by Romney and press. Won't be hard." Also: "Wonder what time slot Cain will get for his Fox show after the election." 
  
 Republican strategist Mike Murphy: "Scorecard: Strong Mitt, weak Perry. Good format, but Charlie wobbled. Hunts better, Newt too. But nobody saw it. Nothing changes." 
  
 The Washington Post's Ezra Klein: "Debate wrap: Romney won. Not-Romney, not-Romney, not-Romney, not-Romney, not-Romney, not-Romney and not-Romney didn't." 
  
 The New York Times' Nate Silver: "My debate grades FWIW: Romney B+, Cain B, Huntsman B-, Gingrich B-, Bachmann C+, Paul C+, Santorum C, Perry C" 
  
 Univserity of Virginia's Larry Sabato: "Cain's 9-9-9 will be only thing most people remember. Double-edged sword, because now it is going to be analyzed as more than a slogan." 
  
 9:51p.m.: Perry promises to "make America America again." What does that mean? Charlie Rose says he believes in tables. That makes more sense. 
  
 9:50p.m.: Look at this funny picture of Romney. In fairness, it would be really hard to sit through things like this if rolling your eyes was basically illegal. Look at this funny picture of Romney. In fairness, it would be really hard to sit through things like this if rolling your eyes was basically illegal. 
  
 9:48p.m.: Cain says he can relate to Americans suffering in this economy because "I was 'po'' before I was 'poor.'" He's funny. 
  
 Answering the same question, Gingrich says he grew up as a military brat, but... well, likeability is not so important. 
  
 9:47p.m.: Santorum and Rose are interrupted by a shouting person in the audience. What did he say? 
  
 9:43p.m.: Gingrich says Obama wants America to fail. There is a stream of American thought that wants America to fail so the government can share in the misery, he says. You can see it in Jimmy Carter's malaise speech, and in Obama's "apologias disguised as press conferences." 
  
 9:35p.m.: Romney talks to a New Hampshire voter about the regulatory burdens that small banks face. He seems more compassionate and better at connecting with this regular person than usual. Maybe Romney's just better at empathizing with fellow business people. The emotion on his face looks more genuine than usual: Romney talks to a New Hampshire voter about the regulatory burdens that small banks face. He seems more compassionate and better at connecting with this regular person than usual. Maybe Romney's just better at empathizing with fellow business people. The emotion on his face looks more genuine than usual: 
  
 9:32p.m.: What Fed chair did Cain actually like? Alan Greenspan, Cain says, because he worked with him, and coordinated well with him in the early 1990s. "I have already given two candidates -- which I cannot name their names -- to replace Mr. Bernanke." Cain loves anonymity! Secret Fed candidates, secret economic advisers. The moderator asks for a hint, but Cain demurs: "I gotta keep them confidential." What Fed chair did Cain actually like? Alan Greenspan, Cain says, because he worked with him, and coordinated well with him in the early 1990s. "I have already given two candidates -- which I cannot name their names -- to replace Mr. Bernanke." Cain loves anonymity! Secret Fed candidates, secret economic advisers. The moderator asks for a hint, but Cain demurs: "I gotta keep them confidential." 
  
 Moderator: "Congressman Paul?" 
  
 Paul: "Spoken like a true insider... Greenspan was a disaster." 
  
 9:25p.m.: And Santorum's question goes to Cain, and the feasibility of his tax plan. Politico's And Santorum's question goes to Cain, and the feasibility of his tax plan. Politico's Ben Smith says, "Everyone's gunning for Cain because Cain is sitting on a big pile of soft poll." 
  
 9:22p.m.: Romney asks Bachmann how she'll create jobs, aside from lowering taxes. It's not really a tough question -- maybe Romney just wanted to have some of the attention off him for a minute. 
  
 9:18p.m.: Surprise, surprise: Perry asks Romeny about Romneycare being the founding idea behind Obamacare. Romney defends his plan, saying it didn't affect people who already had health insurance. Then he tries to turn the question around, saying Texas has tons of uninsured kids. 
  
 9:15p.m.: Finally a question for someone other than Romney. Ron Paul asks Cain about his work for the Federal Reserve in Kansas City. The Fed causes depressions, Paul says. It bails out companies and foreign government, he says, and accuses Cain of being dismissive of his desire to audit the Fed. Cain denies he called "you or any of your people 'ignorant.'" He says he did nothing like this when he served at the Fed. 
  
 9:12p.m.: Huntsman promises his question to Romney won't be about religion -- "Sorry about that, Rick." Huntsman says Romney fired a bunch of people when he worked for Bain Capital. Romney counters he started Staples, a steel mill -- "We began businesses... created tens of thousands of new jobs." 
  
 9:10p.m.: Gingrich refers to President Obama's "class warfare approach," in asking Romney, essentially, why his tax increases are even class warfar-ier. Romney is probably going to get the most of these questions. 
  
 9:08p.m.: The candidates are now going to ask each other questions. Republican strategist The candidates are now going to ask each other questions. Republican strategist Mike Murphy says, "Now for the excruciating, staff written, awkward, too clever by half 'questions' they will ask each other." Bachmann opens by asking Perry about his endorsement of Al Gore in 1988. (ABC News' Rick Klein notes Bachmann once backed Jimmy Carter.) Cain asks Romney if he can name all 59 points in his economic plan. Cain's question is cleverer. 
  
 8:58p.m.: Rick Santorum uses audience participation to show that Cain's 9-9-9 plan wouldn't pass. How many New Hampshire residents want a national sales tax? The audience, not ready for that kind of interaction, does not move. Santorum sparks the most interesting exchange of the night on health care. He also says, "I want to go to war with China." A trade war, he means. A man of the people, he is the only candidate wearing a button-down collar. 
  
 8:50p.m.: Huntsman says on China, Romney is taking a page from Donald Trump. Will that actually hurt Romney with Republican voters? Huntsman says on China, Romney is taking a page from Donald Trump. Will that actually hurt Romney with Republican voters? 
  
 8:48p.m.: The moderators keep pushing Cain on his 9-9-9 plan. Asked about economic analysts that his plan wouldn't bring in enough money to fund the government, Cain says, "The problem with that analysis is that it is incorrect." Bachmann is asked what she thinks of the plan, since she's a former tax lawyer. "The last thing you would do is give Congress another a pipeline of a revenue stream," Bachmann says. A national sales tax would do that, she continues, and once Congress was given that money it would never let go. "When you take the 9-9-9 plan and you turn it upside down, I think the devil's in the details." The moderators keep pushing Cain on his 9-9-9 plan. Asked about economic analysts that his plan wouldn't bring in enough money to fund the government, Cain says, "The problem with that analysis is that it is incorrect." Bachmann is asked what she thinks of the plan, since she's a former tax lawyer. "The last thing you would do is give Congress another a pipeline of a revenue stream," Bachmann says. A national sales tax would do that, she continues, and once Congress was given that money it would never let go. "When you take the 9-9-9 plan and you turn it upside down, I think the devil's in the details." 
  
 8:46p.m.: Jon Huntsman's daughters Jon Huntsman's daughters tweet : "Romney arguing w/ Charlie Rose during break. Guess they didn't stick to the questions given earlier." 
  
 8:41p.m.: Political reporters love sports metaphors, but they are usually inappropriate, because sports represent the heights to which humanity can soar and politics represents the lows to which we can sink. But The New Yorker's Political reporters love sports metaphors, but they are usually inappropriate, because sports represent the heights to which humanity can soar and politics represents the lows to which we can sink. But The New Yorker's Ryan Lizza offers one that seems appropriate: "Romney just wants it more than anyone else up there." 
  
 8:38p.m.: Perry struggles answering a question prompted by a clip of Ronald Reagan urging passing a bill that mixed tax increases with spending cuts. He finally spits out his desire to pass a federal balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, and the crowd cheers. 
  
 8:38p.m.: Bloomberg's Bloomberg's Jonathan Alter tweets, "Cain just said they didn't bail out every big bank. That's totally inaccurate. Paulson made them all accept bailouts." 
  
 8:35p.m.: Texas Public Policy Foundation's Texas Public Policy Foundation's Joshua Treviño tweets, "Man, too bad Rick Perry couldn't be here for this debate." Likewise, Republican strategist Mike Murphy jokes, "Is Perry still in the building?" Looks like the answer to one of our pre-debate questions -- how will being pushed aside by Cain affect Perry? -- has been answered. He's getting very little attention. 
  
 8:28p.m.: Romney defends his support for the bank bailout by saying, "No one likes the idea of a Wall Street bailout." Says the actions of then-President Bush in the 2008 financial crisis kept the dollar from collapsing. The Washington Post's Romney defends his support for the bank bailout by saying, "No one likes the idea of a Wall Street bailout." Says the actions of then-President Bush in the 2008 financial crisis kept the dollar from collapsing. The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza notes that while Romney says that while he wouldn't "keep" Ben Bernanke, Gingrich says he should be thrown in jail. "Romney playing for general," Cillizza says. 
  
 8:24p.m.: Cain defends his plan, saying it will pass "because the American people want it to pass." It has been well studied and well developed, Cain says. I will have some experts, he says. He mentions one staffer -- "Rich Lowrie out of Celeveland, Texas." The rest remain anonymous, despite repeated questions. Lowrie is a "wealth management consultant." 
  
 8:22p.m.: Huntsman gets a questions that seems designed for Herman Cain: who are your economic advisers? Cain has Huntsman gets a questions that seems designed for Herman Cain: who are your economic advisers? Cain has refused to say which of the "best-known economists in this country" are working for him. 
  
 Huntsman is asked about Cain's 9-9-9- plan sounds catchy, and offers his second date joke -- "I thought it was the price of his pizza." 
  
 8:21p.m.: Bachmann makes quite an accusation: "President Obama plans for Medicare to collapse so that everyone will be pushed into Obamacare." 
  
 8:17p.m.: Just as Gingrich waited just 10 minutes to get in his signature move, a shot at the press, Jon Huntsman does his favorite trick on his first question: a dad joke. He tells Perry that Texas isn't the gas capital of the country, "the gas capital of America is Washington!" Ho ho ho. It seems like he just can't help looking like a dork: 
  
 Kind of amazing he was initially sold as the cool candidate 
  
 8:13p.m.: On Occupy Wall Street, Newt Gingrich says of the protesters talking about prosecuting bankers that they should be looking at politicians instead. Charlie Rose asks, clearly you're not saying they should be put in jail? Gingrich says look at former Sen. Chris Dodd's mortgage deal with Countrywide. On Occupy Wall Street, Newt Gingrich says of the protesters talking about prosecuting bankers that they should be looking at politicians instead. Charlie Rose asks, clearly you're not saying they should be put in jail? Gingrich says look at former Sen. Chris Dodd's mortgage deal with Countrywide. 
  
 Then, as he has in every debate, Gingrich takes a shot at the media. 
  
 8:10p.m.: The federal government is to blame for the 2008 financial crisis, Michele Bachmann says. Moderator Karen Tumulty says deregulation allowed speculation on housing -- but Bachmann strongly pushes back that federal programs pushed for that speculation, especially Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "The fault goes back to the federal goverment." She sounds serious, her voice commanding. 
  
 8:06p.m.: Charlie Rose asks Perry why he's been in the race so long but hasn't come up with an economic plan. Perry says he'd cut regulations that are "strangling American entrepreneurship." He promises the plan is coming -- and says Romney has had six years to come up with a plan. 
  
 8:00p.m.: The candidates are introduced. Jon Huntsman is breaking from a two-debate streak of yellow ties. Herman Cain is sticking to yellow. 
  
 7:56p.m.: The candidates have The candidates have taken their seats at Charlie Rose's somber wooden roundtable.Businessweek's Joshua Green says Perry walked out on stage 40 minutes ago, mid-debate prep, looking " 
  
 7:50p.m.: Debate prep we can relate to: The Washington Post's Debate prep we can relate to: The Washington Post's Amy Gardner tweets, "Newt Gingrich has drunk his debate-prepping Diet Coke, his spokesman has just informed us. He's ready." 
  
 7:31p.m.: The Washington Post's The Washington Post's Amy Gardner reports that the Bloomberg VIP tent is serving lobster rolls. Lucky! And The New York Times' Michael D. Shear reports that reporters are also being served "an early Thanksgiving meal of turkey, stuffing, gravy, and pie." How is the mainstream media supposed understand the struggling working people of America when they're eating so many delicious treats? 
  
 7:27p.m.: It will be interesting to see how directly Romney and Perry attack each other. When Texas preacher Robert Jeffress endorsed Perry by saying he was a better Christian than Romney -- and that Romney's Mormonism made him a "cult" member -- Romney demanded Perry repudiate Jeffress. Perry demanded, via press release, that Romney repudiate Romneycare instead. But the Weekly Standard's It will be interesting to see how directly Romney and Perry attack each other. When Texas preacher Robert Jeffress endorsed Perry by saying he was a better Christian than Romney -- and that Romney's Mormonism made him a "cult" member -- Romney demanded Perry repudiate Jeffress. Perry demanded, via press release, that Romney repudiate Romneycare instead. But the Weekly Standard's John McCormack reports that the Texan's son, Griffin Perry, says he doesn't agree with Jeffress. "Mitt Romney has come out and said that he believes Jesus Christ is his savior. That makes him a Christian," the younger Perry says. Now that we've got that out of the way... 
  
 7:10p.m.: Bloomberg cut away from its pre-debate punditry mid-sentence once the collegiate activists got do loud the analysts were drowned out. This doesn't bode well for the college's attempts to avoid Bloomberg cut away from its pre-debate punditry mid-sentence once the collegiate activists got do loud the analysts were drowned out. This doesn't bode well for the college's attempts to avoid embarrassing outbursts during the debate. 
  
 7:05p.m.: The protesters are out at Dartmouth. They're so loud you can't really hear Bloomberg's analysts: 
  
 Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments or send an email to the author at ereeve at theatlantic dot com. You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire. 
  
 Elspeth Reeve ||||| All eyes might be on Texas Gov. Rick Perry at tonight’s debate, but Mitt Romney stole the pregame buzz by trotting out an unexpected endorsement from New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. 
  
 The New Jersey governor announced his support for Mr. Romney at a Tuesday afternoon news conference and followed up with a call to thousands of voters across the country. Mr. Christie declared the former Massachusetts governor the “best person to lead our party” and the best candidate to unseat President Barack Obama next year. 
  
 Mr. Christie also scolded Romney critics who have questioned his Mormon religion and defended the Massachusetts health-care law he pushed as governor that has angered conservatives for its resemblance to the national law signed by Mr. Obama. 
  
 This bear hug of an endorsement raises the stakes on Mr. Perry, whose poll numbers swooned after progressively shaky performances in his first three debates. The Texas governor needs to prove he is up to the task of sharing the stage with Mr. Romney–much less, the president–while building his argument that the former Massachusetts governor isn’t a true conservative–all while avoiding the petty sniping that has soured some would-be Perry supporters…. |||||