Tom Cairney scored the opener following up Scott Parker's shot against the bar just before half-time, with Michael Madl heading a second after the break.
Callum Harriott posed the most threat for Charlton, but they were punished for failing to take their chances.
The game was already dead as a contest when Cairney volleyed in for 3-0.
Charlton came into the match on a run of just one league win since the end of November, but early chances for Simon Makienok and Johann Gudmundsson suggested things might improve.
But instead it was Fulham who struck first, when Cairney was quickest to react after Charlton failed to deal with a Ross McCormack corner, with their second goal early in the second half coming via a similar route.
Moussa Dembele could easily have added a third when he hit the bar minutes after Madl's goal as Charlton visibly dipped, but it was Cairney who added Fulham's third with a sweet volley from the edge of the box.
Fulham manager Slavisa Jokanovic:
Media playback is not supported on this device
"It was a good win for us, we scored three goals and kept a clean sheet - that was the good news.
"The bad news was that I was not very happy with the first half and I try to find a solution. It is my responsibility and I try and fix the problems that I find in the game.
"It was a good win. I am not panicking (about relegation), I am not pessimistic. I believe we have enough in the team for the rest of the games."
Charlton manager Jose Riga:
Media playback is not supported on this device
"Today, if you just look at the result, you would think that we are not existing in this game.
"The reality is that I'm not sure we deserved to be behind at half-time. We got the first opportunity but we know that set-pieces are very important.
"We concede three times from set-pieces, so that was the main problem of today and, of course, it is a big problem for us.
"We are disappointed, we all are, but today I have something to take from the game because at some parts of the game we were doing well. I still believe and still hope that we can find a solution."
Have you added News Alerts in the BBC Sport app? Simply head to the My Alerts menu in the app - and don't forget you can also add score alerts for your favourite football team, the Six Nations, and more.
Match ends, Fulham 3, Charlton Athletic 0.
Second Half ends, Fulham 3, Charlton Athletic 0.
Attempt missed. Moussa Dembele (Fulham) right footed shot from the left side of the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Scott Parker.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Ryan Fredericks.
Attempt blocked. Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Johann Berg Gudmundsson.
Scott Parker (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Chris Solly (Charlton Athletic).
Ross McCormack (Fulham) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic).
Attempt saved. Simon Makienok (Charlton Athletic) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Attempt saved. Johann Berg Gudmundsson (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Chris Solly.
Attempt missed. Callum Harriott (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Simon Makienok with a headed pass.
Ryan Tunnicliffe (Fulham) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Ryan Tunnicliffe (Fulham).
Morgan Fox (Charlton Athletic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Morgan Fox (Charlton Athletic) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ryan Fredericks (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Morgan Fox (Charlton Athletic).
Substitution, Fulham. Ryan Tunnicliffe replaces Tom Cairney.
Attempt missed. Callum Harriott (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Chris Solly.
Attempt missed. Johann Berg Gudmundsson (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick.
Foul by Tom Cairney (Fulham).
Johann Berg Gudmundsson (Charlton Athletic) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt blocked. Reza Ghoochannejhad (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Callum Harriott.
Attempt blocked. Callum Harriott (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Ademola Lookman.
Attempt saved. Ross McCormack (Fulham) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Luke Garbutt.
Substitution, Charlton Athletic. Reza Ghoochannejhad replaces Zakarya Bergdich.
Goal!  Fulham 3, Charlton Athletic 0. Tom Cairney (Fulham) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Moussa Dembele with a headed pass following a corner.
Corner,  Fulham. Conceded by Harry Lennon.
Attempt saved. Johann Berg Gudmundsson (Charlton Athletic) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ademola Lookman.
Offside, Fulham. Chris Baird tries a through ball, but Ryan Fredericks is caught offside.
Ryan Fredericks (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic).
Attempt saved. Tom Cairney (Fulham) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ross McCormack.
Ross McCormack (Fulham) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Jorge Teixeira (Charlton Athletic).
Moussa Dembele (Fulham) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Jorge Teixeira (Charlton Athletic).
Substitution, Charlton Athletic. Marco Motta replaces Diego Poyet.
Substitution, Charlton Athletic. Ademola Lookman replaces El-Hadji Ba.