1. The change the Senate made today is small but consequential: The filibuster no longer applies to judicial or executive-branch nominees. It still applies to bills and Supreme Court nominations. 
  
 2. Well, technically it still applies to all bills and Supreme Court nominations. In practice, legislation that mainly uses the government's tax and spending powers can evade the filibuster using the budget reconciliation procedures. That's how George W. Bush's tax cuts passed, and how Obamacare was finished. As for the Supreme Court, it's very hard to believe that Democrats or Republicans would accept filibusters of qualified Supreme Court nominees, either. And, as Democrats proved today, they don't have to. 
  
 3. The filibuster now exists in what you might call an unstable equilibrium. It theoretically forces a 60-vote threshold on important legislation. But it can — and now, in part, has —been undone with 51 votes. Its only protection was the perceived norm against using the 51-vote option. Democrats just blew that norm apart. The moment one party or the other filibusters a consequential and popular bill, that's likely the end of the filibuster, permanently. 
  
 4. The practical end of the Senate's 60-vote threshold is not plunging the chamber into new and uncharted territories. It's the omnipresence of the filibuster in recent decades that plunged the chamber into new and uncharted territories. At the founding of the Republic, the filibuster didn't exist. Prior to the 1970s, filibusters — which required 67 votes to break for most of the 20th century — were incredibly rare. 
  
 5. As Gregory Koger, a University of Miami political scientist who researches the filibuster, told me: “Over the last 50 years, we have added a new veto point in American politics. It used to be the House, the Senate and the president, and now it’s the House, the president, the Senate majority and the Senate minority. Now you need to get past four veto points to pass legislation. That’s a huge change of constitutional priorities. But it’s been done, almost unintentionally, through procedural strategies of party leaders.” 
  
 6. The rise of the filibuster and the death of the filibuster can be traced to the same fundamental cause: Party polarization. Before the two parties became reasonably unified and disciplined ideological combatants, filibusters were rarely used as a tactic of inter-party warfare because each political party had both members who supported and opposed the bills in question. As that era waned, the filibuster became constant because parties could agree on what to oppose. But that's also why the filibuster's days were (and are) numbered: The majority party agrees on what to support, and continual filibusters against those items increase the majority party's anger at the filibuster itself. 
  
 7. Republicans take a lot of the blame here. They've used the filibuster more aggressively than Democrats, by a wide margin. They've also been less willing to cooperate with Democrats on general legislative efforts, making the presence of the filibuster more costly to the Democratic Party. And they've been so unwilling to work with Democrats this year that they essentially removed all reason for Democrats to stay their hand. The way Senate Democrats saw it was that if they weren't going to get immigration reform or gun control or jobs bills or anything big that they cared about, then at least they would get their judicial and executive-branch nominations. 
  
 8. There's a lot of upside for Republicans in how this went down. It came at a time when Republicans control the House and are likely to do so for the duration of President Obama's second term, so the weakening of the filibuster will have no effect on the legislation Democrats can pass. The electoral map, the demographics of midterm elections, and the political problems bedeviling Democrats make it very likely that Mitch McConnell will be majority leader come 2015 and then he will be able to take advantage of a weakened filibuster. And, finally, if and when Republicans recapture the White House and decide to do away with the filibuster altogether, Democrats won't have much of an argument when they try to stop them. 
  
 9. With gun control dead, immigration reform on life support and bitter disagreement between the House and Senate proving the norm, it looked like the 113th Congress would be notably inconsequential. Today, it became notably consequential. It has changed how all congresses to come will work. Indeed, this might prove to be one of the most significant congresses in modern times. Today, the political system changed its rules to work more smoothly in an age of sharply polarized parties. If American politics is to avoid collapsing into complete dysfunction in the years to come, more changes like this one will likely be needed. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| It’s a 10-kiloton bomb, not a 10-megaton one: Supreme Court nominees will still require 60 votes for cloture before confirmation. The possibility of a Republican president and a Republican Senate pushing through pro-life justices is too horrifying to the left for them to risk changing the rules on SCOTUS appointments too. 
  
 This doesn’t apply to legislation either, but so what? Once the precedent of weakening the filibuster in one context is set, it’s easy for either party to cite it in expanding that precedent to another context. My new mantra: 51 votes for repeal. 
  
 “The need for change is so very, very obvious,” Reid said on the Senate floor Thursday, as almost every senator sat at his or her desk in recognition of the significance of the moment. “It’s clearly visible. It’s manifest we have to do something to change things.” Twice earlier this year, Democrats had threatened to move on the nuclear option in the face of Republican opposition to nominees, but both times an agreement was reached to avert the move. Republican Sen. John McCain told reporters Thursday that he had been working “night and day” to find an agreement this time, but that he had thus far had “no success.”… Reid said that the gridlock made it necessary for the Senate to “evolve.” “It’s time to change,” Reid said. “It’s time to change the Senate before this institution becomes obsolete.” 
  
 “It’s time to change the Senate before this institution becomes obsolete” will make for a fine soundbite in 2017 before the big repeal vote is held. In fact, it’s the growing prospect of the Senate turning red in 2015 that led Reid to this, I think. Ed argued this morning that it seems rash for Democrats to weaken the minority party’s rights when it looks like they’ll end up in the minority themselves sooner rather than later. The counter to that, though, is that as GOP odds of retaking the Senate increase, so does the pressure on Reid to get as much done as he can in the relatively short time he might have left as majority leader. Obama will still be in the White House in 2015 even if Democrats are wiped out in Congress by a backlash to ObamaCare, so there’s no risk of Republicans ramming their own appointees through until 2017 at the earliest. Essentially, he’s betting that in 2016 Democrats either will reclaim the Senate or hold the White House, either of which will mean a continuing check on GOP power. It’s a gamble but it’s not a crazy one. You could even argue that the GOP should have done it itself long ago: 
  
 If John McCain & Co. weren't such pussies, we'd have done this and seated some damned good judges. — The H2 (@TheH2) November 21, 2013 
  
 Meanwhile, Ed’s right that this may lead to more procedural gridlock in the Senate in the near term, not less. Now that Reid’s attacked minority rights, the GOP has no reason to play even slightly nice. No more unanimous consent. Everything by the book from now on. If Reid wants to rewrite that book again and set yet another precedent that Republicans will happily exploit down the road, fine. 
  
 Exit question via Matt Lewis: “If Republicans went nuclear first in order to ram through right-wing judges,’ how would breaking the rules have played in the media?” 
  
 Update: Look on the bright side, though: 
  
 Filibuster rule change also means that Obama could replace Sebelius without worrying about GOP filibuster. HINT. HINT. — daveweigel (@daveweigel) November 21, 2013 
  
 Update: I’ve been assuming that everyone already knows that Reid and other Democratic leaders are hypocrites about this, but in case you need a reminder, here you go. ||||| Justice Why Senate Democrats Had To Invoke The ‘Nuclear Option’ CREDIT: 
  
 Well, it finally happened. 
  
 After five years of filibusters, obstruction, lengthy waits for confirmation and arguments over whether the party that failed to win either the White House or the Senate nonetheless has the power to hold top government jobs open for as long as Barack Obama is president, Senate Democrats finally decided that enough is enough. On Thursday, nearly every member of the Democratic caucus invoked a procedural maneuver that will allow the Senate to confirm several blocked nominees by a majority vote. The era of minority rule is over, at least where it comes to almost every confirmation. 
  
 As the two parties try to blame each other for the circumstances that made this maneuver necessary, a lot of graphs, charts, statistics and outright fabrications are going to be thrown around by each side to prove that the other was the instigator. The truth, however, is that you only need to look at one chart to understand how we got here — this one: 
  
 Though it’s not a perfect measure, a common mechanism used to gauge the frequency of filibusters is the number of “cloture motions” filed during a particular Congress — “cloture” is the procedure used to break a filibuster. So, while filibusters certainly were not unheard of before Democrats gained their current majority and Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) became the Republican leader, they spiked massively the minute McConnell assumed this position. Indeed, nearly 3 in 10 of all cloture motions filed in the history of the Senate were filed during McConnell’s tenure as Minority Leader. Any claim that the Senate’s current minority is simply following past practices is not credible. The filibuster existed before the Age of McConnell, but McConnell made them commonplace. 
  
 But, beyond the unprecedented frequency of filibusters under Mitch McConnell, the current Republican minority wielded them to seize an unprecedented degree of control over the law and the judiciary. With enough creativity, Senate Republicans discovered that the filibuster could not simply prevent new laws from being enacted, it could also be used to effectively repeal laws protecting workers and regulating Wall Street. By refusing to confirm nominees to lifetime appointments on the federal bench, they could also ensure that some of the nation’s most powerful courts remained in Republican hands. And looming over all of this is the next Supreme Court vacancy. If Senate Republicans will use the filibuster today to keep their grip on the nation’s second most powerful court, imagine what they’ll do if a justice retires. 
  
 The End of Unions 
  
 A similar showdown over filibuster reform was averted last July after Republicans agreed to stop using the filibuster to prevent seven key non-judicial jobs from being filled. Among the seven jobs Senate Republicans refused to confirm were three slots on the National Labor Relations Board, the agency with exclusive authority to enforce much of federal labor law. Without the NLRB, 
  
 there will be no one to enforce workers’ rights to join a union without intimidation from their employer. No one to enforce workers’ rights to join together to oppose abusive work conditions. And no one to make an employer actually bargain with a union. Without an NLRB to enforce the law, it may be possible for an employer to round up all of their pro-union workers, fire them, and then replace them with anti-union scabs who will immediately call a vote to decertify the union. 
  
 Two sets of court decisions provoked a crisis that threatened to shut down the NLRB entirely. The first was a 2010 Supreme Court decision holding that the NLRB is powerless to act without a quorum of at least three members. Thus, by filibustering nominees to a majority of the seats on the NLRB, Senate Republicans were on the verge of depriving it of the quorum it needs to operate. And if the NLRB went dark, many of the protections workers enjoy in the workplace would cease to exist until a sufficient number of seats were filled. 
  
 Normally, President Obama could ward this off by making recess appointments to fill these vacant seats — but three court decisions effectively eliminated the President’s ability to do so. Every single Republican judge to weigh in on this question voted to neuter Obama’s ability to make recess appointments, while every single Democratic judge voted in line with a previous court decision leaving the recess appointments power undisturbed. There are five Republicans on the Supreme Court, and only four Democrats, so it wasn’t hard to guess how this would end. 
  
 Though Senate Republicans eventually caved to Democratic threats to nuke the filibuster last July — all five slots on the NLRB are now filled by Senate-confirmed appointees — this solution is only temporary. NLRB members serve five year terms, so the Senate GOP will get another opportunity to shut down federal labor law when these terms expire, even if they are still in the minority and a Democrat is in the White House. 
  
 Only a permanent change to the Senate’s rules can remove the cloud over the NLRB and ensure that a minority of the Senate cannot shut down federal labor law in the future. 
  
 The Supreme Court’s Farm Team 
  
 The battle that finally triggered the so-called “nuclear option” involved three nominees to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The D.C. Circuit is widely viewed as the second most powerful court in the country because it hears an unusually large volume of major regulatory cases and cases involving national security. Indeed, this court has exclusive jurisdiction over many cases involving federal agency action and regulations — meaning that if the D.C. Circuit objects to a federal regulation, the only authority that can second-guess them is the conservative Roberts Court. 
  
 Currently, the D.C. Circuit is dominated by very conservative Republicans. Although the court has four active judges from each party, it also includes six judges in partial retirement who continue to hear a fairly substantial load of cases. Five of these six senior judges are Republicans. 
  
 Nearly all cases before the D.C. Circuit are heard by three-judge panels assembled randomly from the court’s active and senior judges, meaning that the vast majority of cases are heard by Republican panels. As a result, the court’s judges struck down environmental regulations that would literally prevent tens of thousands of deaths. They restricted women’s access to birth control. They held that employers have a constitutional right to keep workers ignorant of their rights. And they handed down a staggeringly broad attack on the recess appointments power. Two judges, David Sentelle and Janice Rogers Brown, joined an opinion arguing that all labor, business or Wall Street regulation is constitutionally suspect. 
  
 Though Senate Republicans primarily rely on misleading statistics to justify their decision to filibuster President Obama’s nominees to this court, they have occasionally been candid about their partisan motivations for doing so. In an op-ed published by Fox News, for example, Senate Minority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX) admitted that he supports the filibusters because he does not want Democrats to “switch the majority” on the D.C. Circuit. 
  
 It’s also worth noting that, when George W. Bush was in the White House, Senate Republicans held very different views about the D.C. Circuit. Today, they object to the fact that President Obama wants to confirm more than eight active judges to the court, but when Bush was president, many of the same Republicans voted to confirm a total of eleven active judges to this court. If Obama fails to fill the court’s vacancies, it’s easy to imagine that Senate Republicans will once again be happy to confirm new judges if one of their fellow partisans moves into the White House. The result will be that, no matter who the American people elect as president, Republicans will have a virtual veto power over agency actions through their control of the D.C. Circuit. 
  
 The Bigs 
  
 If Senate Republicans are willing to fight this hard to keep control over the second most powerful court in the country, imagine what will happen if Justice Scalia decides to spend more time with his family? In 2009, when President Obama was at the peak of his popularity, just nine Republican senators voted to confirm Justice Sotomayor — and only three are still in the Senate. Even if those three, Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Susan Collins (R-ME) and Lindsay Graham (R-SC) support the next Supreme Court nominee, that’s still two votes shy of the amount needed to break a filibuster if all 55 Democrats also support the nominee. 
  
 And there’s no guarantee that these three Republicans would not filibuster a Democratic appointee to the Supreme Court. In 2012, a Tea Party candidate named Richard Mourdock defeated six-term incumbent Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN) in the Republican Party primary. Mourdock made Lugar’s votes in favor of Justices Sotomayor and Kagan a major focus of his primary campaign. When primary season rolls around next year, and the next cycle after that, and the next cycle after that, Republican senators are going to remember what happened to Richard Lugar. If they want to keep their jobs, they’re going to be very reluctant to vote for another Sotomayor or Kagan. 
  
 Simply put, if Democrats every want to confirm another justice to the Supreme Court of the United States, they have to stand for filibuster reform. 
  
 Technically, the changes that Senate Democrats backed today still allow filibusters on Supreme Court nominees. As a practical matter, however, that should not matter one bit. Now that the nuclear option is established as an effective way to bypass minority obstruction, Democrats will have no excuse if they allow a future filibuster of a Democratic president’s Supreme Court nominee to stand. 
  
 Sabotage 
  
 Beyond the need to prevent Senate Republicans from cutting off workers’ rights or from forming an unbreakable grip on the judiciary, there is another, more subtle reason why filibuster reform can no longer be put off. While it’s a bit of a stretch to blame the botched Healthcare.gov roll out on a particular filibuster, one Senate Democratic source described this incident as a wake up call for Democrats about the perils of a dysfunctional government. Democrats’ central message is that they can deliver better results for the American people by tapping into the power of government to improve people’s lives. Every job that goes unfilled, every outstanding potential nominee who opts out of public service because they don’t want to deal with the hassle, and every deal that must be struck in order to accomplish basic government functions undermines the government’s ability to harness this power. 
  
 The filibuster allows Republicans to sabotage government and then campaign on the fact that government isn’t working. This is a recipe for more sabotage. ||||| It would have been unthinkable just a few months ago, when the majority leader, Harry Reid, was still holding out hope for a long-lasting deal with Republicans and insisting that federal judges, because of their lifetime appointments, should still be subject to supermajority thresholds. But Mr. Reid, along with all but three Senate Democrats, was pushed to act by the Republicans’ refusal to allow any appointments to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, just because they wanted to keep a conservative majority on that important court. 
  
 That move was as outrageous as the tactic they used earlier this year to try to cripple the National Labor Relations Board and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (which they despise) by blocking all appointments to those agencies. That obstruction was removed in July when Mr. Reid threatened to end the filibuster and Republicans backed down. The recent blockade of judges to the D.C. appellate court was the last straw. 
  
 Republicans warned that the rule change could haunt the Democrats if they lost the White House and the Senate. But the Constitution gives presidents the right to nominate top officials in their administration and name judges, and it says nothing about the ability of a Senate minority to stop them. (The practice barely existed before the 1970s.) From now on, voters will have to understand that presidents are likely to get their way on nominations if their party controls the Senate. 
  
 Given the extreme degree of Republican obstruction during the Obama administration, the Democrats had little choice but to change the filibuster rule. As Mr. Reid noted on the floor, half of all filibusters waged against nominations in Senate history have occurred since Mr. Obama was elected. Twenty of his district court nominees were filibustered; only three such filibusters took place before he took office. There has also been a record-setting amount of delay in approving the president’s choices for cabinet positions and federal agency posts, even when no objections have been raised about a nominee’s qualifications. 
  
 The rule change does not end the 60-vote threshold for blocking legislation, which we have argued is worth preserving. But the vote may lead to broader filibuster changes. A proposal by several younger Democratic senators to require “talking filibusters” — forcing objecting lawmakers to stand up at length and make their cases — may well gain steam now, and it could finally spell an end to logjams that have prevented important legislation from reaching votes. |||||