Audrina Patridge Files for Divorce I'm Afraid for My Safety and My Daughter's 
  
 Audrina Patridge Files for Divorce, Gets Restraining Order Against Husband (UPDATE) 
  
 EXCLUSIVE 
  
 Audrina Patridge is divorcing her husband of less than a year, on the heels of running to court to get protection from him ... TMZ has learned. 
  
 The former 'Hills' star filed to divorce Corey Bohan on Wednesday, and according to docs the split appears to be triggered by a series of incidents she considers menacing and emotionally abusive. 
  
 In the docs, obtained by TMZ, Audrina says the violence began in mid August when they argued about her accusing him of cheating. She says she was holding their daughter, Kirra Max, when Corey pushed her back. Audrina says he then emptied out her backpack and purse, and began punching himself in the head ... and threatening to bash himself in the head with a metal canister if she left. 
  
 She says Corey had threatened suicide before -- in July while she was out of town on a business trip. 
  
 According to docs, on Sept. 6, Corey was at home watching KIirra, and when Audrina got home, he began calling her names and harassing her. Audrina says she grabbed Kirra and went upstairs, but he followed and told her she's "f**ked up" because of her childhood and her messed up mother. She says she started recording video of him, and he said, "Grow some balls and pull the trigger and file for divorce." 
  
 At this point, she says she was terrified and called police to file a report. On Sept. 15, she says child protective services came to the house to meet with her. 
  
 Her breaking point came this past weekend. Audrina says she was on a panel at a beauty event, and Corey showed up and followed her on the stage. She doesn't say it got physical, but he demanded to know where Kirra was and said he was going to get her. Audrina says, "I was shaking at this point." 
  
 Audrina filed for a temporary restraining order against him on Monday, Sept. 18 ... which was granted. 
  
 Corey -- an Australian BMX rider -- and Audrina just got married in Hawaii in November 2016. They seemed like a happy family in early August while on a staycation with 15-month-old Kirra. 
  
 Audrina's rep says, "Audrina's number one priority is her daughter." ||||| After less than a year of marriage, Audrina Patridge and Corey Bohan are calling it quits. She filed for divorce two days after receiving a restraining order against Corey, according to a shocking new report. 
  
 Audrina Patridge filed for divorce from her husband, Corey Bohan, on Sept. 21, according to TMZ. The site reports that two days earlier, she also filed for a temporary restraining order, leading to speculation that a possible domestic violence incident could have caused the breakup. The Hills star and her husband have been married for less than one year, and their daughter, Kirra, was just born in June 2016. We actually first met Corey when Audrina was starring on The Hills, and they’ve been together on and off since 2008. Their wedding ceremony in Hawaii in Nov. 2016 was completely picturesque, but unfortunately, the fairytale just didn’t last. 
  
 As of now, TMZ does not have any details about why Audrina filed a restraining order, but HollywoodLife.com has reached out to the reality star’s rep for comment. Before Corey, Audrina famously dated “Justin Bobby” on The Hills and was also briefly romantically involved with Ryan Cabrera. However, it was the Australian BMX rider who eventually stole her heart, although it took him several years to finally pop the question, which he did while they were on vacation in Nov. 2015. 
  
 Just a month and a half ago, on Aug. 7, Audrina posted an adorable family photo of herself, Corey and Kirra to Twitter, and they all had huge smiles on their faces. Considering this relationship was on and off for so many years before the pair got married, it definitely appears that they’ve had issues, but something pretty serious must have happened for her to file for divorce so suddenly. 
  
 HollywoodLifers, did you expect Audrina and Corey’s relationship to end so soon? |||||