The rosé was everywhere at Rose Café in Venice but Chrissy Teigen was sipping from a can of Red Bull. It was a little before noon. Attendees, most of whom wore sundresses and beachy waves, stood idly at the inaugural Chase Sapphire Sundays: Brunch with Chrissy Teigen event, drinking their frosé cocktails garnished with rose petals. They were trying to get a glimpse of their host, who, for the time being, was sitting behind a mesh screen, cross-legged on her chair. 
  
 Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 
  
 She was feeling tired, she said, maybe a little jet-lagged. Teigen, John Legend, and their 16-month-old daughter Luna have been vacationing a bit more than usual this summer. They had recently come back from Italy and would soon be leaving for another vacation. They are focusing on travel because "a lot of stuff's about to come," Teigen said. "We're going to try to have a child. This is for us to try to get in the zone of 'let's travel, let's be away together, let's see our closest friends,' and then we're going to have to do something super hard, which is the IVF process, all over again." 
  
 🐥 A post shared by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on Aug 8, 2017 at 9:01am PDT 
  
 Before Italy, it was Bali, where they attended a wellness retreat. Teigen wanted to do a reset on her health. "I was, point blank, just drinking too much," she said, looking down at the table between us. She picked up my phone and turned it around in her hands. "I got used to being in hair and makeup and having a glass of wine. Then that glass of wine would carry over into me having one before the awards show. And then a bunch at the awards show. And then I felt bad for making kind of an ass of myself to people that I really respected. And that feeling, there's just nothing like that. You feel horrible. It's not a good look for me, for John, for anybody." 
  
 Included in the $100 price of entry for the brunch were unlimited specialty cocktails and wine, a legion of servers always replenishing the supply. A special day in the life of a Sapphire card-carrying commoner. Not so much for a celebrity — especially not one who's been a spokesperson for Captain Morgan and Smirnoff. "Imagine everything we have," Teigen said. "Everything is there, always. I don't know how to go to an awards show and not drink." 
  
 Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 
  
 She has a history of alcohol abuse in her family, she said, and she's the type of person who "can't just have one drink." She is also taking a number of medications for postpartum depression and anxiety, which "alcohol is like the least thing that helps." She started to worry about where this was headed. 
  
 "Nobody really brought it up to me," Teigen said. "They just assumed that it was OK because I always felt OK the next morning. I knew in my heart it wasn't right. It makes you very short with people. People think it's cutesy and fun to go on these boozy brunches, but there's more to it. I've never once been like, 'I'm sure glad I had that boozy brunch!'" 
  
 Teigen made a shift in Bali. While there, she abstained from alcohol entirely and didn't find herself missing it. She ate better. She worked out. It was "really, really wonderful," she said. "I would wake up feeling amazing. My skin felt amazing. I was just so happy." 
  
 What will be tricky is figuring out what to do now that she's back in Los Angeles, where access to alcohol is easy and free. One possibility is that she might end up going completely dry, which she also announced she'd do in April 2013. "I used to think it was kind of nutty to have to go totally sober," she said, "but now I get it. I don't want to be that person. … I have to fix myself." 
  
 Released from her press commitments, it was time for Teigen to give her public what they came for. She walked through a mass of attendees toward a succulent wall and answered questions about travel and cooking. A woman with pink hair and a pink vest held a glass of rosé in her hand, captivated. Somewhere in the back, a man shouted, "I love you, Chrissy!" Teigen held a coupe of … something indeterminate and made a toast. "Thank you so much, this has been absolutely wonderful," she said, and went around clinking. 
  
 Follow Helin on Instagram. ||||| Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Teigen gets real about her struggle with alcohol and holds nothing back 
  
 Chrissy Teigen is the goddess of authenticity, and an expert at telling it like it is. Her latest dose of brutally honest, what-you-see-is-what you-get reality? Her struggle with alcohol. 
  
 Teigen recently opened up to Cosmopolitan, explaining why she was drinking a Red Bull while everyone else was sipping frosé cocktails before an event. 
  
 “I was, point blank, just drinking too much,” she admitted. She said her drinking went from a drink or two here and there, and then spiraled from there. 
  
 “I got used to being in hair and makeup and having a glass of wine. Then that glass of wine would carry over into me having one before the awards show. And then a bunch at the awards show. And then I felt bad for making kind of an ass of myself to people that I really respected. And that feeling, there’s just nothing like that. You feel horrible. It’s not a good look for me, for John, for anybody.” 
  
 Teigen, her husband John Legend, and 16-month-old daughter Luna spent the summer traveling to places like Italy and Bali (ummm…jealous!) before they get ready for another round of IVF treatments. While the family was in Bali, Teigen went to a wellness retreat to reset her health. She eschewed alcohol entirely, ate more healthfully, exercised, and generally felt amazing. She admitted that staying the course will be more difficult once she’s back in the Hollywood scene and the stress of daily life takes hold, and she hasn’t ruled out going completely sober. 
  
 With her lifestyle, where cocktails are constantly replenished, Teigen admitted that she didn’t “know how to go to an awards show and not drink.” And while awards shows might not be something the rest of us can relate to, the parenting-and-booze duo can be a difficult one to escape. In fact, sometimes it feels like motherhood and wine memes go hand in hand. 
  
 Teigen said there’s a history of alcohol abuse in her family, and she has trouble having just one drink. She said that alcohol isn’t compatible with the medications she takes for postpartum depression and anxiety. And even though no one suggested it was a problem to her, she began to worry that her alcohol consumption was heading in an unhealthy direction. 
  
 Our love of Chrissy Teigen is real and it is fierce. We stand and applaud when she claps back at haters who chide her for using IVF, mom-shamers who lecture her about how to hold her own damn baby, and the busybodies who want to know the intimate details of her struggle with infertility. We nod our heads when she gets real about the challenges of breastfeeding, we laugh our asses off when she trolls the trolls, and we give her virtual fist bumps when she tries (and fails) to stay awake at the Oscars. (Seriously, who can stay away past 11:00 at night anymore?) Teigen is is fully committed to her family, fresh out of fucks for things that don’t matter, and never fails to tell it like it is – and we love her for it, just like we love and support her for making this difficult admission and taking care of herself. 
  
 “I used to think it was kind of nutty to have to go totally sober, but now I get it,” Teigen said. “I don’t want to be that person… I have to fix myself.” |||||