After kick-off was delayed when Hull were caught in traffic on the M62, Wigan struggled to contain the visitors as Steve Michaels, Albert Kelly, Jake Connor and Jamie Shaul scores put Hull 22-0 up after 41 minutes.
Liam Forsyth was the first to respond for Wigan with a 53rd minute try.
Three further late tries almost saw Wigan salvage a draw, but Hull hung on.
George Williams, Tom Davies and Liam Marshall touched down in a enthralling eight-minute period to give Warriors hopes of remaining the only unbeaten side in the league, only for Morgan Escare to miss the chance to level with the boot.
The win sees the Black and Whites move two places to the summit, with Castleford capable of going top on Sunday with victory over Catalans Dragons.
While Hull FC were relieved to leave Wigan with maximum points, their first-half display, inspired by Kelly who produced a superb solo try, was devastating against a Warriors outfit that badly stuttered in attack.
Forsyth, in his first season back in rugby league after spending time with Premiership rugby union side Bath, sparked the hosts to life with an effort that was ruled out in the corner minutes before finally landing his first score for the club.
Decisively, it turned out, Escare missed the conversion, the first of two costly misses from the tee.
Wigan coach Shaun Wane:
"It was a good effort. We were unlucky not to win the game.
"We were poor in the first half and bombed three tries on our right edge in the first 15 minutes.
"Against a team like Hull you have to take your chances. They are a good team, but I am proud of our efforts."
Hull FC head coach Lee Radford:
"I'm a little bit frustrated. I describe that game of rugby league as opening up a petrol cap, throwing a flame into the tank and burning all the fuel and then running on fumes all second half.
"That was what we did. Some of the errors some blokes were making were not acceptable. I'm really disappointed with that. If that game goes on another five minutes we get beat.
"The first-half effort defensively was great, the energy they played with one another was as good as it gets. But if you keep hold of the ball, you don't have to defend that hard, it's a real simple equation."
Wigan Warriors: Escare; Davies, Gelling, Forsyth, Marshall; Williams, Leuluai; Nuuausala, Powell, Flower, J Tomkins, Isa, Clubb.
Replacements: Tautai, Gregson, Bretherton, Navarrete.
Hull FC: Shaul; Fonua, Connor, Griffin, Michaels; Kelly, Sneyd; Taylor, Houghton, Bowden, Manu, Minichiello, Ellis.
Replacements: Green, Thompson, Washbrook, Matongo.
Referee: Phil Bentham