Crawls performed by the Internet Archive in 2018 on behalf of the National Library of Australia. ||||| Australia reviews search after ‘important new information’ from satellite data reveals plane was in high and increasing rate of descent in final moments 
  
 MH370: data suggests plane was out of control as it plummeted into ocean 
  
 Australia is mounting a case for a new search effort for MH370 bolstered by “important new information” about what investigators believe to have happened at the end of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight. 
  
 A new report by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) suggests the plane was in a “high and increasing rate of descent” at the time of its final satellite communications, and that the right outboard wing flap found on Pemba island was not deployed at the time of the crash. 
  
 What happened to MH370? Malaysia Airlines flight 370, flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 227 passengers and 12 crew, vanished on 8 March 2014. There was no trace of the plane until a flaperon washed up on Réunion in the Indian Ocean in 2015. Several pieces of debris found around east and south Africa have since been assessed to be from the missing aircraft. A seabed search led by Australia, backed by Malaysia and China, is due to continue until early 2017. Theories – all unproven – have ranged from crew involvement or hijacking to onboard fire or catastrophic technical failure. 
  
 Both are consistent with an uncontrolled plane plummeting into the ocean in the final moments of a flight in which it was not configured for a landing or ditching. 
  
 The future of the hunt for MH370 hinges on whether this constitutes credible new evidence about the location of the wreck. A spokesman for the ATSB declined to say. 
  
 But the ATSB is hosting a three-day meeting with other experts from Wednesday to attempt to finalise a proposal to shift the search for the missing plane further north. 
  
 The ATSB has been leading the hunt for MH370 in a 120,000 sq km area of the southern Indian ocean, with the remaining 10,000 sq km due to be completed early next year. 
  
 As that venture nears completion, the likelihood of finding the wreckage has dwindled, and there have been calls from experts for the search effort to be shifted further north – calls to which the ATSB has now given credence. 
  
 The report released on Wednesday pointed to drift analysis and the times and locations at which debris has been found as evidence that the crash site was likely to be “within the current search area, or further north”. 
  
  
  
 Simulations have also shown some northernmost areas “to be less likely” to be the site of the plane’s wreckage than others, and ongoing analysis is expected to further refine those results. 
  
 There are now more than 20 items of debris of interest to investigators, including seven that have been examined and determined to have come from MH370. All were found on coastlines of the western Indian Ocean, including Madagascar, Mauritius, Réunion and Rodrigues. 
  
 No debris has made landfall on Tasmania or Western Australia, effectively ruling out a crash site south of the search area. 
  
 It is not clear whether efforts to extend the search will be accepted. At a tripartite meeting in July, the transport ministers for Australia, Malaysia and China agreed that the search effort would be suspended indefinitely with the completion of the current area. 
  
 The MH370 first principles review summit currently under way in Canberra is understood to be aiming to reach a robust and fully costed proposal for the Australian transport minister, Darren Chester, to take to his counterparts in Malaysia and China – the destination of flight MH370 and home to most of its 227 passengers – to persuade them to agree to renew the search. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Analysis of the recovered right outboard wing flap section (inverted) of MH370 suggested it was not set for landing at the time it separated from the plane. Photograph: AFP/Getty Images 
  
 Chester said in a statement on Wednesday that the fresh ATSB report contained “important new information on what we believe happened at the end of MH370’s flight”. 
  
  
  
 He said the summit would review “all the available data and analysis associated with the search to date … inform the remainder of the search effort, and develop guidance for any future search operations”. 
  
 Both Chester and Greg Hood, the chief commissioner of the ATSB, were unavailable to speak to Guardian Australia on Wednesday. But a spokeswoman for Chester said the review summit was to review the findings so far, and expanding the search was not on the agenda. 
  
 Even if the likely site of the plane’s wreck was determined, any new search effort outside of the current area would have to be agreed upon by the three governments involved. 
  
 The challenge would likely be persuading China and Malaysia to contribute to the cost of a new search, reportedly in the region of AU$30m (£18.7m). Almost AU$200m has been spent on the underwater operation currently underway, with the bulk of the expense shouldered by Malaysia and Australia. 
  
  
  
 News that the ATSB was attempting to define a new search area, despite a lack of any funding commitment, was first reported in August. “If it is not in the area which we defined, it’s going to be somewhere else in the near vicinity,” Hood told Associated Press at the time. 
  
 The ATSB has not requested any new funding, the spokesman told Guardian Australia. 
  
 ​The man on a solo mission to find ​the wreckage o​f​ flight MH370 Read more 
  
 Though Australia is leading the search for the wreckage of the plane, Malaysia holds overall responsibility for the investigation. Representatives are understood to be present at the review summit in Canberra, though not the Malaysian transport minister. 
  
 Its authorities have been accused of a lack of urgency with potential pieces of plane debris left to languish in storage, awaiting pickup, for months. 
  
 In a surprise development on Tuesday, Malaysia Airlines granted lawyers in Sydney representing victims’ families access to a huge number of company records, including maintenance log books and medical certificates of the crew. 
  
 The documents have thus far only been released to the Malaysian police report into MH370, which remains secret. 
  
 John Dawson, a partner at Carneys Lawyers, told Reuters that he had been advised he would receive the information by the end of November. Guardian Australia has contacted Dawson for comment. ||||| (CNN) Missing plane Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 was plunging toward the sea with no one in control when it made its last satellite communication, new analysis reveals. 
  
 A report released Wednesday by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau provided the clearest picture yet of the plane's final moments in March 2014. 
  
 "Additional analysis (of) the final satellite communications to and from the aircraft is consistent with the aircraft being in a high and increasing rate of descent at that time," the report said. 
  
 "Additionally, the wing flap debris analysis reduced the likelihood of end-of-flight scenarios involving flap deployment." 
  
 According to end of flight simulations run by the Australian bureau, the plane was spiraling in its final moments, descending at up to 25,000 feet per minute (284 mph). 
  
 The Australian Transport Safety Bureau has analyzed the recovered flaperon. 
  
 AirlineRatings.com aviation expert Geoffrey Thomas told CNN the report debunked theories that the pilot had been flying the plane when it landed in the sea. 
  
 "The really important news in this report is that the flap found in Tanzania was stowed," he said, referring to the flaperon that washed up off the East African country in June. 
  
 "Therefore there was no way this airplane was being flown by anyone. It was out of control, ran out of fuel and spiraled into the sea at high speed." 
  
 Asked what might have happened, she pointed to "two early hypotheses" -- namely, that a fire on board the plane incapacitated everyone through smoke or fumes, or that a rapid decompression, perhaps because of a breach in a window, led to their deaths hours before the plane ran out of fuel and spiraled downward. 
  
 "The wreckage showed that what you would have extended -- the landing flaps -- were not extended in the final moments of the flight, so no one was planning to land the plane on water," said Schiavo, a former US Department of Transportation inspector general. 
  
 Investigations into pilot 
  
 Information had emerged in recent months that raised questions over the actions of chief pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah , who was in charge of the plane when it disappeared from radar screens. 
  
 The magazine quoted a leaked document from an FBI investigation that showed deleted files had been recovered from Zaharie's home-built flight simulator. 
  
 They reportedly revealed he had plotted a course into the deep southern Indian Ocean -- a course that closely matched the final flight MH370 is thought to have taken. Investigators said the simulator files had been created just weeks before the jet disappeared, according to the document. 
  
 The confidential document, whose contents were not independently confirmed by CNN, summarized the Malaysian police investigation into Zaharie. 
  
 In an email to CNN that same month, Joint Agency Coordination Center spokesman Scott Mashford said, "The MH370 captain's flight simulator showed someone had plotted a course to the southern Indian Ocean." The Australian agency is directing the search for MH370. 
  
 Mashford did not elaborate on who may have plotted the route. 
  
 In August, Malaysian Transport Minister Datuk Seri Liow Tiong Lai told reporters that Zaharie's personal flight simulator had practiced routes over the Indian Ocean, according to Malaysia's Bernama state news agency. 
  
 But the minister added there was no evidence to prove that Zaharie had piloted the aircraft to the southern Indian Ocean, Bernama reported, saying "the simulator was used by the pilot for trial and error in many areas. There are thousands of simulations to many destinations." 
  
 Zaharie's sister, Sakinab Shah, told CNN her brother had been made a "scapegoat" and that any claims against him were a "fabrication." 
  
 3 pieces of debris found 
  
 Shortly after it left Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, for Beijing on March 8, 2014, MH370 ceased communications and vanished, creating one of the greatest aviation mysteries. 
  
 More than 20 items of debris have been brought to the attention of investigators, but only three have been confirmed as from MH370 , including the flaperon mentioned in the new report. 
  
 Photos: MH370 debris Malaysia Airlines flight 370 disappeared on March 8, 2014. As of October 2016, authorities have definitively linked three pieces of debris to the plane, while four other pieces are believed to "almost certainly" come from the missing aircraft. A flaperon from a Boeing 777 was found on Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean in July 2015. Authorities later confirmed the debris came from MH370. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris Two pieces of debris were found in Mozambique, in December 2015 and February 2016. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said both pieces "almost certainly" came from the missing plane. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris An examination of stenciling and other identifiable features were used to link the debris to MH370. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris Two more pieces of debris, found in March 2016, were also deemed to have "almost certainly" come from MH370, according to the ATSB. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris One piece is believed to be from the plane's Rolls Royce engine, while the other matched a Boeing 777 interior closet panel. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris A piece of aircraft debris found in Tanzania in June 2016 and transported to Australia. The country's Infrastructure and Transport minister said it was confirmed as coming from MH370 in September 2016. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: MH370 debris A left outboard flap trailing edge section found on the island of Mauritius in May 2016. In October , it was confirmed as coming from MH370. Hide Caption 7 of 7 
  
 So far, 110,000 square kilometers (42,000 square miles) have been covered as part of the underwater search for MH370, with the hunt currently due to conclude at 120,000 square kilometers (46,000 square miles). 
  
 "Where they're looking is still the area where everyone agrees that's where the plane is," aviation expert Thomas said, adding there were slight disagreements in opinion. 
  
 "(But) we're only talking about small increments -- just variations as to exactly, precisely where it could be." 
  
 Australian Transport Minister Darren Chester said at a press conference Wednesday the new report confirmed that search crews had been combing the right area. 
  
 "To have not found the aircraft at this stage is frustrating for everyone involved and particularly for the families of the passengers and crew," Chester said. 
  
 MH370 search meeting begins in Australia 
  
 The report came as officials from Malaysia, China and Australia and experts from the United States and United Kingdom met in Canberra, Australia, to discuss the ongoing search. 
  
 "They are reviewing all the available data and associated analysis, assumptions and modeling undertaken to inform the definition of the search area," Australian Transport Safety Bureau communication officer Dan O'Malley told CNN on Wednesday. 
  
 Thomas said there had been suggestions the meeting may decide to extend the search for MH370 beyond the current search zone. 
  
 "It's an opportunity to gather the experts from around the world to look at the available information, to exchange ideas," Chester said. "It's an opportunity for just a full assessment of how the underwater search is being carried out and a reassessment." 
  
 The meeting is due to run until Friday. |||||