MAYWOOD, Il. - Riding a couple roller coasters at an amusement park appears to have triggered an unusual stroke in a 4-year-old boy, according to a report in the journal Pediatric Neurology. 
  
 The sudden acceleration, deceleration and rotational forces on the head and neck likely caused a tear in the boy's carotid artery. This tear, called a dissection, led to formation of a blood clot that triggered the stroke, Loyola University Medical Center neurologist Jose Biller, MD and colleagues report. 
  
 Strokes previously have been reported in adult roller coaster riders, but there are only a few previous reports of strokes in children who rode roller coasters, including a 13-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy. The 4-year-old boy described by Loyola neurologists is one of the youngest reported in the medical literature. 
  
 Prior to his stroke, the 4-year-old boy was healthy. During an out-of-state vacation with his parents, he rode two roller coasters. The first ride was 679 feet long and 30 feet high, with a top speed of 25 mph. The second ride had a 53-foot drop with a descent speed of 40 mph. 
  
 The day after riding the roller coasters, the boy vomited and developed a droop on the left side of his face while on the flight back home. By the time he arrived home, he was unable to walk and had weakness on his left side. He was rushed to the hospital, where imaging exams showed he had experienced a carotid artery dissection and stroke. He received low-dose aspirin and doctors observed a steady improvement. At a six-month follow-up visit, his gait had improved considerably, and he had only mild muscle weakness and stiffness on the left side. 
  
 Sudden movements that can hyperextend the neck or rotate the neck - such as whiplash, certain sports movements or even violent coughing - can result in a dissection of the carotid artery. A dissection begins as a tear in one layer of the artery wall. A blood clot can form in the area of the tear. If it's large enough, the clot can block blood flow to the brain. Or, pieces of the clot can break free, travel up to the brain and block blood flow to the brain. In either case, the result is a stroke. 
  
 A child under age 10 is vulnerable to sudden neck movements and rotations due to weak neck muscles, a relatively large head and other factors. "This hypermobility, combined with other kinetic and linear forces experienced during a roller coaster ride, could theoretically explain why some children, albeit rarely, sustain dissections," Dr. Biller and colleagues wrote. 
  
 Dr. Biller is an internationally known expert on strokes in children and young adults. He has written a textbook on the topic and is a co-author of the American Heart Association's guidelines for management of stroke in infants and children. Dr. Biller notes that about 15 percent of the most common type of strokes (caused by blood clots) occur in adolescents and young adults. 
  
 ### 
  
 Dr. Biller is chair of the Department of Neurology of Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. 
  
 The paper in Pediatric Neurology is titled "Internal carotid artery dissection after a roller-coaster ride in a 4-year-old. Case Report and Review of the Literature." Co-authors are Amre Nouh, MD, (first author), Daniel Vela-Duarte, MD, Thomas Grobelny, MD, George Hoganson, MD and David Pasquale, MD. ||||| Kids love the thrill of a roller coaster ride, but in one child's case a fun day at the amusement park turned into a medical nightmare. The 4-year-old boy suffered a stroke after he rode a couple of roller coasters. 
  
 Details about the rare case were published Thursday in the journal Pediatric Neurology. 
  
 Dr. Jose Biller, chair of the Department of Neurology of Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine, who treated the child, said the sudden movements of the rides and gravitational force on the child's head and neck caused a tear in his carotid artery, which is responsible for supplying oxygenated blood to the region. The tear resulted in a blood clot that went to the brain and triggered the stroke. 
  
 This type of injury is also known to occur from whiplash, such as as in a car accident or while playing certain sports. 
  
 The boy's parents said he was in good health before riding two roller coasters in May 2013 while the family was vacationing out of state. 
  
 The first roller coaster was 679 feet long and 30 feet high and the acceleration reached 25 miles per hour. At its highest and fastest, the second ride was 53 feet above ground and moved at a speed of 40 miles per hour. 
  
 The boy showed no immediate signs of trouble after the rides, but according to his parents, he began vomiting the next day. On the flight back home, he started to develop a droop on the left side of his face, a common sign of stroke. By the time the family arrived home, he was unable to walk and had weakness on his left side. 
  
 His parents took him to the hospital and medical imaging tests showed the injury to his artery and also that he had suffered a stroke. 
  
 Doctors started the child on low-dose aspirin and he quickly showed signs of recovery. At his six-month follow-up Biller reported an improvement in his walking. By that time, the child only had mild muscle stiffness and weakness. 
  
 Today, Biller tells CBS News the boy still has some trouble with his left side. "He walks with a limp and he needs help getting dressed. But he can move his left arm and grip things," Biller said via email. "He has no speech problems, and he is doing above average in school. He is taking karate classes as part of his therapy." 
  
 Suffering a stroke after riding a roller coaster is extremely rare, but not unprecedented. There have been a handful of cases involving adults. The authors of the case study were able to identify only two previous cases involving children -- a 13-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy. Biller's 4-year-old patient is the youngest known child to have suffered a stroke after riding a roller coaster. 
  
 The 11-year-old patient's case was the subject of a 2001 paper published in the Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry. That boy also visited an amusement park while on vacation. He rode a roller coaster at the end of the day, and after the ride came to an abrupt halt he almost immediately began to experience a headache that lasted for a week. After he felt better, he went to another amusement park and rode some more rides. 
  
 In the two weeks that followed, the boy had recurrent weakness and paralysis on both the right and the left sides of his body. He also had problems with muscle coordination related to the headache, as well as dizziness, nausea, and vomiting. Doctors diagnosed the child with a carotid artery tear. They say he made an excellent recovery. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. |||||