Saurabh Das/Associated Press An Agni IV missile on displayed during the Republic Day parade in New Delhi, Jan. 26, 2012. 
  
 India is set to test its most advanced long-range nuclear-capable missile to date later Wednesday, a launch experts say will serve as a deterrent against Pakistan and China. 
  
 Agni V, an intercontinental ballistic missile, is set to be launched from Wheeler Island, off the coast of the eastern state of Orissa, in the late afternoon, according to a defense ministry official. The expected launch of Agni V is part of India’s broader missile development program, a key aspect of the country’s nuclear strategy. 
  
 Built locally, Agni V has a range of over 5,000 kilometers, meaning it could reach as far as Beijing, Tehran and Pyongyang. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 If the test is successful, this would make it “the most advanced in the Indian missile inventory,” said Poornima Subramaniam, an Asia-Pacific armed forces analysts with IHS Jane’s, a global think tank specializing in security issues, in an email. 
  
 Ms. Subramaniam says Agni V would boost India’s strategic position against China while improving its deterrence system against its other regional rival, Pakistan. 
  
 “The Agni-V can strike targets across the depth of China, potentially freeing up other short- and intermediate range missiles for use against Pakistan and much of west and south-central China. While India maintains a no-first-use policy, it views this road-mobile ICBM capability as technologically narrowing the missile gap between India and China,” she added. ICBM stands for intercontinental ballistic missile. 
  
 The launch of Agni V is interesting also because it offers a rare glimpse into India’s broader nuclear strategy, much of which focuses on improving its delivery vehicles. 
  
 “Because there is so little public discussion on the nuclear weapons themselves, the frequent testing of a diverse array of ballistic missiles, of increasingly longer range, is the most visible reminder of India’s growing nuclear capability,” explained M.V. Ramana, a security expert, in a recent report. 
  
 India is aiming to complete a “nuclear triad,” a system that would allow nuclear weapons to be delivered by airborne, land-based and sea-based vehicles. 
  
 The missiles in the Agni series, which take their name from the Hindi word for fire, are the cornerstone of India’s mobile land-based nuclear delivery system. The most recent test took place in November with the launch of Agni IV, a 3,500-km-range missile. 
  
 India’s planned launch of Agni V comes days after North Korea’s launch of a multistage rocket failed. The pressure is on for India to show it can do better. 
  
 - Preetika Rana contributed to this post. 
  
 You can follow Margherita and India Real Time on Twitter @margheritamvs and @indiarealtime. ||||| India is planning to test launch a new nuclear missile that for the first time would give it the capability of hitting the major Chinese cities of Beijing and Shanghai. 
  
 The government has hailed the Agni-V missile, with a range of 5,000 kilometers (3,100 miles), as a major boost to its efforts to counter China's regional dominance and become an Asia power in its own right. The test launch was expected to come as early as Wednesday evening. 
  
 "It will be a quantum leap in India's strategic capability," said Ravi Gupta, spokesman for India's Defense Research and Development Organization, which built the missile. 
  
 China is far ahead of India in the missile race, with intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching anywhere in the country. Currently, the longest-range Indian missile, the Agni-III, has a range of only 3,500 kilometers (2,100 miles) and falls short of many major Chinese cities. 
  
 India and China fought a war in 1962 and continue to nurse a border dispute. India has also been suspicious of Beijing's efforts to increase its influence in the Indian Ocean in recent years. 
  
 "While China doesn't really consider India any kind of a threat or any kind of a rival, India definitely doesn't think in the same way," said Rahul Bedi, a defense analyst in New Delhi. 
  
 India already has the capability of hitting anywhere inside archrival Pakistan, but has engaged in a splurge of defense spending in recent years to counter the perceived Chinese threat. 
  
 The Indian navy took command of a Russian nuclear submarine earlier this year, and India is expected to take delivery of a retrofitted Soviet-built aircraft carrier soon. 
  
 The new Agni, named for the Hindi word for fire, is part of this military buildup and was designed to hit deep inside China, Bedi said. 
  
 Government officials said the missile should not be seen as a threat. 
  
 "We have a declared no-first-use policy, and all our missile systems, they are not country specific. There is no threat to anybody," Gupta said. "Our missile systems are purely for deterrence and to meet our security needs." 
  
 The launch window for the missile test, which is being conducted on Wheeler Island off India's east coast, opens Wednesday evening and closes Friday, Gupta said. 
  
 The Agni-V is a solid-fuel, three-stage missile designed to carry a 1.5-ton nuclear warhead. It stands 17.5 meters (57 feet) tall, has a launch weight of 50 tons and was built at a reported cost of 25 billion rupees ($486 million). It can be moved across the country by road or rail. 
  
 "Agni-V is a game-changer and a technological marvel," V.K. Saraswat, scientific adviser to the defense minister, was quoted as telling The Hindu newspaper. 
  
 The missile could also be used to carry multiple warheads or to launch satellites into orbit. 
  
 The planned test comes days after North Korea's failed long-range rocket launch. North Korea said the rocket was launched to put a satellite into space, but the U.S. and other countries said it was a cover for testing long-range missile technology. 
  
 Even if India's test is deemed a success, the missile will need four or five more trials before it can be inducted into India's arsenal at some point in 2014 or 2015, Bedi said. 
  
 Some reports characterized the Agni-V as an intercontinental ballistic missile _ which would make India one of the few countries to have that capability _ but Gupta and analysts said its range fell short of that category. 
  
 India has no need for such sophisticated weapons, said Rajaram Nagappa, a missile expert and the head of the International Strategic and Security Studies Program at the National Institute of Advanced Studies in Bangalore. 
  
 "I don't think our threat perceptions are anything beyond this region," he said. |||||