Media playback is not supported on this device
Chris Erskine and Kris Doolan put Thistle ahead after Ryan Christie's opener, but Kenny McLean levelled from the penalty spot.
Scott Wright, with a fine curling effort, then Niall Keown both netted.
But substitute Rooney nodded home Christie's cross to send the Dons top of the league.
Keown was shown a second yellow card in stoppage time to compound Thistle's misery.
The Dons have now won all four of their opening league fixtures, and sit at the Premiership summit with 12 points from 12, while the Jags are still seeking their first points of the season.
Having won on their five previous visits to Firhill, including a 6-0 thumping last time round, Aberdeen had every right to approach the game confidently.
Indeed Stevie May had tested Tomas Cerny before 20 seconds had elapsed as Derek McInnes's side began the game purposefully.
Thistle failed to heed that warning though and with the home defence dozing, Christie was able to collect Greg Stewart's pass and turn the ball past the keeper with the minimum of fuss.
That start must have alarmed Alan Archibald but his side's response was immediate.
Erskine created a bit of room just outside the penalty area and although he didn't strike the ball cleanly, it crept beyond the diving Joe Lewis and into the bottom corner.
And the home fans' angst turned to delight shortly afterwards when Doolan pounced on a loose ball inside the six-yard box.
There was a lull following that flurry of early action, but the game once again sprung to life when Christie went down under a needless shove from Stuart Bannigan and McLean sent Cerny the wrong way from the spot.
There was no let-up in the excitement after the interval and Wright, who scored a hat-trick here in May, again gave notice of his burgeoning talent with a goal of supreme quality, curling the ball over Cerny from the angle of the penalty area.
But Thistle's response was swift once more and Keown headed them level from Blair Spittal's corner.
McInnes was desperate for all three points to preserve their 100 per-cent record and threw on Rooney alongside May up front.
Cruel as it must have felt for Thistle, Aberdeen were rewarded for their valour as the Irishman glanced a Christie cross beyond Cerny.
Thistle were angered on a number of occasions by the decision-making of referee Bobby Madden but he had little option other than to show a late second yellow to Keown for a reckless foul on McLean.
The home side remain pointless but can take some solace from their contribution to a fabulous game of football.
Match ends, Partick Thistle 3, Aberdeen 4.
Second Half ends, Partick Thistle 3, Aberdeen 4.
Greg Tansey (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Adam Barton (Partick Thistle).
Second yellow card to Niall Keown (Partick Thistle) for a bad foul.
Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Niall Keown (Partick Thistle).
Substitution, Partick Thistle. Kevin Nisbet replaces Blair Spittal.
Substitution, Partick Thistle. Steven Lawless replaces Chris Erskine.
Substitution, Aberdeen. Mark Reynolds replaces Scott Wright.
Goal!  Partick Thistle 3, Aberdeen 4. Adam Rooney (Aberdeen) header from very close range to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ryan Christie with a cross.
Substitution, Aberdeen. Nicky Maynard replaces Stevie May.
Corner,  Aberdeen. Conceded by Jordan Turnbull.
Corner,  Aberdeen. Conceded by Christie Elliott.
Foul by Graeme Shinnie (Aberdeen).
Blair Spittal (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Adam Rooney (Aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Milan Nitriansky (Partick Thistle).
Corner,  Aberdeen. Conceded by Tomás Cerny.
Attempt saved. Ryan Christie (Aberdeen) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top left corner.
Shaleum Logan (Aberdeen) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Conor Sammon (Partick Thistle).
Attempt missed. Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Corner,  Aberdeen. Conceded by Milan Nitriansky.
Corner,  Aberdeen. Conceded by Milan Nitriansky.
Attempt missed. Stevie May (Aberdeen) right footed shot from more than 40 yards on the right wing is too high from a direct free kick.
Jordan Turnbull (Partick Thistle) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ryan Christie (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jordan Turnbull (Partick Thistle).
Attempt missed. Scott Wright (Aberdeen) right footed shot from the left side of the box is too high.
Substitution, Aberdeen. Adam Rooney replaces Greg Stewart.
Foul by Anthony O'Connor (Aberdeen).
Kris Doolan (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Kenny McLean (Aberdeen) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Christie Elliott (Partick Thistle).
Corner,  Partick Thistle. Conceded by Shaleum Logan.
Foul by Anthony O'Connor (Aberdeen).
Chris Erskine (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Shaleum Logan (Aberdeen).
Conor Sammon (Partick Thistle) wins a free kick in the defensive half.