Stephanie Roche was given acres of space to put the visitors ahead after good work from Beth Mead.
The goal was a wake-up call for Chelsea as captain Katie Chapman headed in Karen Carney's free-kick to level.
Waves of attacks followed and Fran Kirby nodded in what proved to be the winner as Sunderland's defence cracked.
The home side should have won by more, Eniola Aluko forcing several excellent saves from Rachael Laws, but the points end Chelsea's two-game losing run while Sunderland stay second-bottom.
Chelsea skipper Katie Chapman: "We were disappointed to go a goal behind because we wanted a fast start and really wanted that first goal.
"But we did respond and we managed to get a goal back quite quickly and I think that gave us the momentum from there and we played really well.
"We are a resilient side and got it back on track and have done it a few times this season where we've come back from behind."
Sunderland striker Stephanie Roche: "We always knew we would have to defend deep and not let them get behind us and in the end we were chasing the ball for 90 minutes, which is very hard.
"I thought we held good lines and tried not to let them get behind us and then we got the goal and that gave us a little boost, but the sucker punch was they got the goal back straight away.
"We just need to regroup now and get ourselves going for the second half of the season."
Match ends, Chelsea Ladies 2, Sunderland Ladies 1.
Second Half ends, Chelsea Ladies 2, Sunderland Ladies 1.
Attempt missed. Bethany England (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Steph Bannon.
Attempt missed. Drew Spence (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Eniola Aluko with a cross.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Rachael Laws.
Attempt saved. Francesca Kirby (Chelsea Ladies) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Karen Carney.
Ana Borges (Chelsea Ladies) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Beth Mead (Sunderland Ladies).
Attempt blocked. Katie Chapman (Chelsea Ladies) header from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Karen Carney with a cross.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Hayley Sharp.
Attempt blocked. Drew Spence (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Bethany England.
Attempt saved. Katie Chapman (Chelsea Ladies) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Karen Carney with a cross.
Krystle Johnston (Sunderland Ladies) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ana Borges (Chelsea Ladies) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Krystle Johnston (Sunderland Ladies).
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Substitution, Chelsea Ladies. Bethany England replaces Gemma Davison.
Delay in match Rachel Furness (Sunderland Ladies) because of an injury.
Corner,  Sunderland Ladies. Conceded by Katie Chapman.
Attempt blocked. Rachel Furness (Sunderland Ladies) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Eniola Aluko (Chelsea Ladies).
Beth Mead (Sunderland Ladies) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Victoria Williams.
Attempt blocked. Gemma Davison (Chelsea Ladies) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Eniola Aluko.
Rachel Furness (Sunderland Ladies) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ana Borges (Chelsea Ladies) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Rachel Furness (Sunderland Ladies).
Attempt missed. Karen Carney (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Eniola Aluko.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Rachael Laws.
Attempt saved. Eniola Aluko (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Francesca Kirby.
Substitution, Chelsea Ladies. Drew Spence replaces Ji So-Yun.
Attempt missed. Karen Carney (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Eniola Aluko.
Corner,  Chelsea Ladies. Conceded by Rachael Laws.
Attempt saved. Eniola Aluko (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner. Assisted by Ji So-Yun.
Substitution, Sunderland Ladies. Rachel Furness replaces Kelly McDougall.
Attempt missed. Eniola Aluko (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Gemma Davison.
Attempt missed. Ji So-Yun (Chelsea Ladies) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right. Assisted by Francesca Kirby.
Offside, Chelsea Ladies. Francesca Kirby tries a through ball, but Hannah Blundell is caught offside.
Attempt blocked. Eniola Aluko (Chelsea Ladies) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is blocked. Assisted by Gemma Davison.