Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) 
  
 Bill Cosby broke his silence Friday, albeit briefly, to lecture the media on remaining “neutral” and to say that his wife is standing by him. 
  
 Reached at his Massachusetts home, the star declined to address the rape and sex abuse allegations from an ever-growing list of women that now includes supermodel Beverly Johnson. 
  
 Instead, Cosby, 77, said that the African-American media — for which this reporter often writes — should be impartial. 
  
 “Let me say this. I only expect the black media to uphold the standards of excellence in journalism and when you do that you have to go in with a neutral mind,” Cosby said. 
  
 The comedian, who is being represented by attorneys Martin Singer and John B. Schmitt, said he has been advised not to talk to reporters about the ongoing allegations. More than two dozen women have publicly claimed that the “Fat Albert” creator drugged and raped them. 
  
 The allegations span at least four decades, beginning in the 1960s. 
  
 Johnson, who auditioned for the “The Cosby Show” in the 1980s, alleges that Cosby put drugs in her cappuccino after he invited her to his New York brownstone to rehearse lines for an episode on his hit NBC television show. While Johnson didn’t accuse Cosby of rape, she said she didn’t know what his intentions were after spiking her drink. 
  
 Cosby sounded upbeat on the phone, but said he couldn’t address the specific allegations. 
  
 He did, however, wax poetic when asked how his wife of more than a half-century, Camille Cosby, was holding up under the strain of the allegations. 
  
 “Love and the strength of womanhood,” he said. “Let me say it again, love and the strength of womanhood. And, you could reverse it, the strength of womanhood and love.” 
  
 Then Cosby cut off the conversation. “They don’t want me talking to the media,” he said. ||||| After weeks of media headlines and scrutiny and a subsequent career downfall, Bill Cosby's wife, Camille, is speaking up and standing by her husband of 50 years. 
  
 Over the last month, more than 15 women have come forward with stories claiming that the 77-year-old comedian had drugged and sexually assaulted them. The alleged incidents date as far back as the 1960s. 
  
 Bill has largely stayed silent on the matter, though he did open up to the New York Post about his wife and the ongoing allegations: "Love and the strength of womanhood. Let me say it again, love and the strength of womanhood. And, you could reverse it, the strength of womanhood and love." 
  
 Here's what Camille had to say in her statement on Monday: 
  
 "I met my husband, Bill Cosby, in 1963, and we were married in 1964. The man I met, and fell in love with, and whom I continue to love, is the man you all knew through his work. He is a kind man, a generous man, a funny man, and a wonderful husband, father and friend. He is the man you thought you knew. 
  
 A different man has been portrayed in the media over the last two months. It is the portrait of a man I do not know. It is also a portrait painted by individuals and organizations whom many in the media have given a pass. There appears to be no vetting of my husband's accusers before stories are published or aired. An accusation is published, and immediately goes viral. 
  
 We all followed the story of the article in the "Rolling Stone" concerning allegations of rape at the University of Virginia. The story was heart-breaking, but ultimately appears to be proved to be untrue. Many in the media were quick to link that story to stories about my husband - until that story unwound. 
  
 None of us will ever want to be in the position of attacking a victim. But the question should be asked - who is the victim?" 
  
 Camille's comments come as yet another Cosby stand-up performance was canceled (in Houston) and Spelman College in Atlanta suspended its endowed professorship with the actor. 
  
 His upcoming TV series got scrapped, too. And he's stepped down as a member of the board of trustees at Temple University. |||||