“In schools across the country, including one near my home, signs were hung with the teens’ names and slogans like, ‘looking forward to your return,’ ” Mr. Sheizaf wrote on his blog. “If the teachers knew about the blood in the car, the bullet holes and the sound of gunshots, would they have let their young students paint those signs or have their photos taken with them and posted on the Internet?” 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Another Israeli journalist, Raviv Drucker, suggested that concealing facts from the public might have built support for the military operation in the West Bank against Hamas operatives during the search for the teenagers, but also created an atmosphere of blood lust, and open calls for violent revenge, in the days before a Palestinian boy in East Jerusalem was abducted and burned to death. 
  
 “That doesn’t mean that the search for the boys should have been halted, but perhaps there would have been fewer mass prayer vigils and empty speeches predicated on the belief that the boys were still alive,” Mr. Drucker wrote. “And perhaps there would have been less pressure from the public for a heavy handed response from our decision makers. Perhaps, too, the wave of ugly incitement would have been a bit smaller.” 
  
 The absence of verified information about the missing Israelis initially led some Palestinians to speculate that “no abduction had ever occurred,” according to Amira Hass, a correspondent for Haaretz. The widespread assumption that the boys might be found alive, fostered by statements from Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations and other officials, also fueled speculation that the boys might have been abducted as bargaining chips to win the release of Palestinian political prisoners. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Mr. Drucker noted that the continuing suppression of information about the police investigation into the brutal killing of Muhammad Hussein Abu Khdeir, the 16-year-old snatched from a street near his home in East Jerusalem last week, was accompanied by an apparent campaign to deflect blame by tarnishing the victim’s reputation. Opaquely sourced reports suggested that the boy might have been killed not by Jewish extremists, but by his own family in a dark “honor killing.” 
  
 As the police pursued this line of inquiry, evidence about the nature of the crime and the possible identity of the killers emerged through the efforts of Palestinian journalists, Internet activists and the boy’s family, who shared surveillance-camera footage with foreign correspondents who have more latitude to evade Israeli gag orders. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Bushra Abu Khdeir, an aunt of the boy, showed British reporters grainy, black-and-white video of the abduction, recorded by a surveillance camera. 
  
 Days later, the Palestinian-American blogger Ali Abunimah published clearer images, recorded by another security camera, that he said appeared to show the kidnappers’ faces. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 The Palestinian Wattan News Agency also obtained and published video of men reviewing the same security camera footage, which was apparently recorded just before the abduction. 
  
 Details of the investigation into Muhammad’s death are officially secret, even after an Israeli police spokesman announced the arrest of six suspects and said there was a “strong possibility” that the motive for the killing of the Palestinian teenager was “nationalistic,” indicating that it was a revenge attack by right-wing Jewish extremists. 
  
 When an Israeli police officer agreed to brief Sheera Frenkel of Buzzfeed on the investigation, revealing that the suspects were racist, hard-core fans of the Beitar Jerusalem soccer club, he insisted on anonymity because of the gag order. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 That leak from the police has ignited public discussion of whether the Jerusalem club’s anti-Arab soccer fans are the embodiment of a dark tribalism at the heart of all extreme nationalism or deranged fanatics whose violence is unrelated to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
  
 As that debate continues, Israeli journalists like Mr. Sheizaf say that the country’s security officials should be challenged more when they seek legal permission to stifle the media. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “My only hope is that those district judges who approve the gag orders without giving them a second thought — be that incommunicado arrests, details of an investigation or a fact that might embarrass the chief of staff — might learn something from this affair,” he wrote. “I hope that in the future, local and foreign journalists think twice about the way they serve the interests of those in power, as opposed to the interests of their own readers.” ||||| GAZA/JERUSALEM An airstrike outside a family home early Saturday pushed the Palestinian death toll past 100 in four days of cross-border fighting as Israel showed no sign of pausing despite international pressure to negotiate a ceasefire with the militants. 
  
 Asked if Israel might move from the mostly aerial attacks of the past four days into a ground war in Gaza to stop militant rocket fire, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu replied, "We are weighing all possibilities and preparing for all possibilities." 
  
 "No international pressure will prevent us from acting with all power," he told reporters in Tel Aviv a day after a telephone conversation with U.S. President Barack Obama about the worst flare-up in Israeli-Palestinian violence in almost two years. 
  
 On Friday Washington affirmed Israel's right to defend itself in a statement from the Pentagon. But Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel told Israeli Defence Minister Moshe Ya'alon he was concerned "about the risk of further escalation and emphasized the need for all sides to do everything they can to protect civilian lives and restore calm." 
  
 An Israeli airstrike killed five youths and wounded 15 people outside a family home in the Jabalya refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip early on Saturday, witnesses and medical officials told Reuters. 
  
 A rocket seriously wounded one person and injured another seven Israelis when a fuel tanker was hit at a service station in Ashdod, 30 km (20 miles) north of Gaza. Palestinian militants warned international airlines they would fire rockets at Tel Aviv's main airport. 
  
 Medical officials in Gaza said at least 75 civilians, including 23 children, were among 106 people killed in the aerial bombardments that Israel began on Tuesday. They included 12 killed on Friday. 
  
 Among the dead was a man described by Palestinian officials as a doctor and pharmacist. A 4-year-old boy was killed when a neighbour's house was targeted by an Israeli raid, a Palestinian hospital official said. Two other people aged 70 and 80 were killed in a missile strike elsewhere in Gaza, the Palestinian Heath Ministry said. 
  
 Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas urged the United Nations Security Council to order an immediate truce. 
  
 But Israel said it was determined to end cross-border rocket attacks that intensified last month after its forces arrested hundreds of activists from the Islamist Hamas movement in the occupied West Bank following the abduction there of three Jewish teenagers who were later found killed. A Palestinian youth was killed in Jerusalem in a suspected Israeli revenge attack. 
  
 Israel's campaign "will continue until we are certain that quiet returns to Israeli citizens," Netanyahu said. Israel had attacked more than 1,000 targets in Gaza and there were "more to go." 
  
 Israel's military commander, Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz, said his forces were ready to act as needed - an indication of a readiness to send in tanks and other ground troops, as Israel last did for two weeks in early 2009. 
  
 "We are in the midst of an assault and we are prepared to expand it as much as is required, to wherever is required, with whatever force will be required and for as long as will be required," Gantz told reporters. 
  
 Western-backed Abbas, who is based in the West Bank and agreed a power-sharing deal with Gaza's dominant Hamas in April after years of feuding, called for international help: "The Palestinian leadership urges the Security Council to quickly issue a clear condemnation of this Israeli aggression and impose a commitment of a mutual ceasefire immediately," he said. 
  
 RACE FOR SHELTER 
  
 After the failure of the latest U.S.-brokered peace talks with Israel, Abbas's accord with Hamas angered Israel. 
  
 The rocket salvoes by the hardline movement and its allies, some striking more than 100 km (60 miles) from Gaza, have killed no one so far, due in part to interception by Israel's partly-U.S. funded Iron Dome aerial defence system. 
  
 But racing for shelter had become a routine for hundreds of thousands of Israelis and their leaders have hinted they could order troops into the Gaza Strip, a 40-km sliver of coastline that is home to nearly 2 million people. Some 20,000 reservists have already been mobilised, the army says. 
  
 Hamas's armed wing said it would fire rockets at Tel Aviv's Ben-Gurion international airport and warned airlines not to fly to Israel's main gateway to the world. 
  
 The airport has been fully operational since the Israeli offensive began and international airlines have continued to fly in, with no reports of rockets from Gaza - largely inaccurate projectiles - landing anywhere near the facility, inland of the coastal metropolis. It is within an area covered by Iron Dome. 
  
 LEBANESE ROCKETS 
  
 Fire was also exchanged across Israel's northern border. Lebanese security sources said two rockets were fired into northern Israel on Friday but they did not know who had fired them. Israel responded with artillery fire. Palestinian groups in Lebanon have often fired rockets into Israel in the past. 
  
 Lebanese security forces arrested a Lebanese man suspected of firing the rockets with two Palestinians, the national news agency said. The Israeli military said they caused no damage. 
  
 Palestinians said Israeli tanks fired shells east of Rafah, ships shelled a security compound in the city of Gaza and aircraft bombed positions near the Egyptian and Israeli borders. 
  
 The offensive is the deadliest since November 2012, when around 180 Palestinians and six Israelis were killed during an Israeli air campaign to punish Hamas for missile attacks. That conflict was eventually halted with mediation from Egypt, which was then governed by Hamas's Muslim Brotherhood allies. 
  
 But Egypt, now ruled by the Brotherhood's enemies, is today locked in a feud with Hamas over the group's alleged support for militants in Egypt's Sinai desert - something Hamas denies. Cairo said on Friday its "intensive efforts" with all sides to end the warfare has met only "intransigence and stubbornness". 
  
 Izzat El-Risheq, a Hamas official told Arab television Al-Hadath "there are efforts for a ceasefire," but demanded Israel stop its offensive before any deal could be reached. 
  
 If Israel launches a ground invasion of Gaza, it would be the first since a three-week war in the winter of 2008-09, when some 1,400 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed. 
  
 The Israeli military said some 550 projectiles have been fired at Israel since Tuesday and that it had targeted some 210 sites in the Gaza Strip over the past 24 hours, among them "long-range rocket launchers, Hamas leadership facilities and terror and smuggling tunnels." 
  
 An anti-tank rocket fired near the Gaza border wounded two Israeli soldiers on Friday, and Israel said it had targeted seven Hamas militants accused of involvement in rocket attacks. 
  
 (Editing by Lisa Shumaker) ||||| JERUSALEM (AP) — Gaza rocket fire struck a gas station and set it ablaze Friday in southern Israel, seriously wounding one person as rocket fire also came from Lebanon for the first time in the four-day offensive. 
  
 An Israeli border police officer checks documents of Palestinian women on their way to pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at the Qalandia checkpoint, between... (Associated Press) 
  
 Palestinians use a ladder to climb over the separation barrier with Israel on their way to pray at the al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, in Al-Ram, north of Jerusalem,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Shells for Israeli forces' mobile artillery units are seen at their position on the Israel-Gaza border, Friday, July 11, 2014. Gaza rocket fire struck a gas station and set it ablaze Friday in southern... (Associated Press) 
  
 An Israeli border police officer checks documents of a Palestinian man on his way to pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan at the Qalandia checkpoint, between... (Associated Press) 
  
 Israeli soldiers gather at a staging area on the Israel-Gaza border, Friday, July 11, 2014. Gaza rocket fire struck a gas station and set it ablaze Friday in southern Israel, seriously wounding one person... (Associated Press) 
  
 An Israeli soldier sleeps on a mobile artillery unit at a position on the Israel-Gaza border, Friday, July 11, 2014. Gaza rocket fire struck a gas station and set it ablaze Friday in southern Israel,... (Associated Press) 
  
 An Israeli soldier sleeps on a mobile artillery unit at a position on the Israel-Gaza border, Friday, July 11, 2014. Gaza rocket fire struck a gas station and set it ablaze Friday in southern Israel,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Smoke rises following an Israeli strike on Gaza, seen from the Israel-Gaza Border, Friday July 11, 2014. Rocket fire by Palestinian militants continued in earnest from Gaza toward various locations in... (Associated Press) 
  
 The attack on the gas station in Ashdod looked to be the most serious attack in Israel in the four days of fighting that has seen Israel deliver a heavy blow to Gaza's Hamas leaders. The military have carried out more than 1,000 strike strikes against Gaza targets that have killed at least 95 people, including dozens of civilians. 
  
 The explosion in Ashdod sent plumes of smoke high into the air, leaving a trail of charred vehicles in its wake. Israeli health officials said the blast wounded three people, including one in serious condition. Rocket fire continued in earnest from Gaza toward various locations in southern Israel and around Tel Aviv. 
  
 In northern Israel, rocket fire struck near the Lebanese border and the military responded with artillery fire toward the source in southern Lebanon, military spokesman Lt. Col. Peter Lerner said. 
  
 The Lebanese military said three rockets were fired toward Israel around 6 a.m. (0300 GMT) and the Israelis retaliated by firing about 25 artillery shells on the area. 
  
 Lebanon's state-run National News Agency said that one of those suspected of firing the rockets was wounded and rushed to a hospital. The Lebanese military said troops found two rocket launchers and dismantled them. 
  
 Southern Lebanon is a stronghold of the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, which has battled Israel numerous times. However, recent fire from Lebanon has been blamed on radical Palestinian factions in the area and Hezbollah has not been involved in the ongoing offensive. 
  
 A Lebanon-based al-Qaida-linked group, the Battalions of Ziad Jarrah, claimed responsibility in the past for similar rocket attacks on Israel. 
  
 Gaza militants already have fired more than 550 rockets against Israel in the four-day offensive. Israel's "Iron Dome" defense system has intercepted most of those aimed at major cities but some have slipped through. 
  
 Frequent air raid sirens sounded across Israel on Friday, including for the first time in the northern city of Haifa. Israel has shot down at least 110 incoming rockets thus far. 
  
 Israel launched the Gaza offensive to stop incessant rocket fire that erupted after three Israeli teenagers were kidnapped and killed in the West Bank and a Palestinian teenager was abducted and burned to death in an apparent reprisal attack. 
  
 The military says it has hit more than 1,100 targets already, mostly what it identified as rocket-launching sites, bombarding the territory on average every five minutes. 
  
 In Gaza, an Israeli airstrike Friday hit the home of a well-known Islamic Jihad leader. Gaza health officials said five people were killed in the strike. 
  
 Lerner said the military was doing its utmost to prevent civilian casualties, calling inhabitants ahead of time to warn of imminent attacks. He said Israeli forces also fire "non-explosive munitions" at roofs as a warning and looks for people to leave before destroying a structure. 
  
 Lerner blamed Hamas for the death of innocent bystanders by firing from heavily populated areas. 
  
 Israel's military "uses its weapons to defend its civilians. Hamas uses its civilians to defend its weapons," he said. 
  
 Israeli leaders are mulling whether to launch a ground assault in Gaza to target Hamas. Such a move, though, would likely involve a rise in Palestinian civilian casualties and put Israeli troops at risk as well. 
  
 During a ground incursion in early 2009, hundreds of civilians were killed and both sides drew war crimes accusations in a United Nations report 
  
 Israel has mobilized more than 30,000 reservists to supplement the potential ground operation. 
  
 Amos Yadlin, a retired general and former head of military intelligence, said Israel has already re-established a deterrent factor against Hamas and should offer a cease-fire and aim to wrap up its campaign in the coming days. 
  
 "If the Israeli offer is turned down, Israel will refill its stock of legitimacy in such a way that will enable a significant expansion of the objectives and scale of the operation," he wrote in a column published Friday in the Yediot Ahronot daily newspaper. "Hamas has taken severe blows since the start of the round of violence and has failed in almost every step it took. ... However, one rocket that hits an Israeli population center will be enough to change the picture completely." 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writers Bassem Mroue in Beirut and Najib Jobain in Gaza City, Gaza Strip contributed to this report. |||||