A parachutist from the Army display team, the Red Devils, had a narrow escape when his parachute failed to open fully at a display in Cumbria. 
  
 Corporal Mike French, 34, was plummeting to the ground during a display at the Whitehaven Air Show in Cumbria when his device failed. 
  
 His life was saved by another team member, Corporal Wayne Shorthouse, 32, who managed to catch up with him and control his descent. 
  
 The Red Devils perform 60 displays every year. Pic: File 
  
 The pair then came down into Whitehaven's Queens Dock where they were picked up by an inflatable safety boat. 
  
 One witness, Sarah David wrote on Facebook: "(It) was awful watching them struggling, especially when they veered off course - until we realised they were purposely targeting the biggest area of water for ditching in to." 
  
 Play video "Red Devils Describe Parachute Drama" Video: Red Devils Describe Parachute Drama 
  
 Melanie Ryden added: "We felt sick watching them tangled together and falling so fast. So relieved they landed in the water and were unhurt. Well done guys." 
  
 Pictures showed one of the men, dressed in the team's distinctive red outfit, appearing to grab the collapsed parachute of another man below him. 
  
 A message later posted on the air show's Facebook page, said: "We can confirm that the Red Devil parachutists are both safe and sound. 
  
 "For the first time in 25 years they had a parachute fail. 
  
 Play video "Red Devils Parachute Rescue" Video: Red Devils Parachute Rescue 
  
 "One team member caught his teammate and brought him into Queens Dock. 
  
 "Our safety procedures worked perfectly and a huge thank you to Whitehaven Marina for getting them out of the water so quickly." 
  
 Cpl Shorthouse, of Plymouth, is the team's display coordinator and has made more than 1,350 jumps while Cpl French, from Cumbria, has completed more than 1,500 jumps and is a tandem coordinator, according to the Red Devils website. 
  
 Former Red Devil Mark Hunt told Sky News that the two may have been trying to fly side by side before joining together before "something went a bit wrong". 
  
 Play video "'Like Watching Superman'" Video: 'Like Watching Superman' 
  
 He added: "That guy on top, that parachute is designed for one person and one person only and he's got two people hanging on it and he did well to get it into that water to land it. 
  
 "He's hanging on with his leg and his hands he's holding whatever that lad weighs - 14 or 15 stone - without a shadow of a doubt, if he'd dropped him from that height (and) the parachute wouldn't have opened, he'd have broken some bones or been killed." 
  
 The Red Devils, which is made up of elite members of the British Army's Parachute Regiment, formed in 1963. 
  
 It has a similar function to the RAF's Red Arrows and carries out more than 60 displays every year. 
  
 1 / 8 Gallery: Parachutist Saves Colleague As Chute Fails The Red Devil spots that his colleague is in danger and moves in to help 
  
 It currently comprises of 12 serving soldiers from the three battalions of the Paras, all of whom have to have at least three years experience. 
  
 An Army spokesman said the incident was being investigated. ||||| We can confirm that the Red Devil parachutists are both safe & sound. For the first time in 25 years they had a parachute fail. One team member caught his team-mate & brought him into Queens Dock. Our safety procedures worked perfectly & a huge thank you to Whitehaven Marina for getting them out of the water so quickly. ||||| Lucy Milne, who witnessed the Red Devils parachutists becoming entangled mid-air, has spoken of the relief among spectators when it was seen they had escaped unhurt. 
  
 She described the mid-air drama as "crazy". ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| A Red Devil skydiver was caught in mid-air and brought to safety by a team-mate after his parachute became tangled during a dramatic lucky escape at an air show. 
  
 The two man British Army freefall parachute display team was performing at the Whitehaven Air Show, on the Cumbrian coast, on Friday when Corporal Mike French’s parachute became tangled in the legs of Cpl Wayne Shorthouse above him. 
  
 They were lined up to perform a manoeuvre called a ‘stack’ – where one jumper is directly under another – at around 18,000 feet above the ground when the entanglement happened and Cpl French’s chute began to collapse. 
  
 But Cpl Shorthouse, 32, the team’s display coordinator, managed to wrap his legs around the deflated parachute, holding his colleague’s weight until they landed in the water at Whitehaven Marina minutes later at a speed of 15mph. 
  
 Footage and pictures of the incident showed the men descending beneath one fully working parachute, before landing in the water at Queen’s Dock. An Army spokesman said it was the first time a parachute has failed in 25 years and it has launched an investigation into what went wrong. 
  
 Cpl French, who is married, later told of the moment the two men became entangled: “As soon as I’d made contact with Wayne I looked up and saw my parachute was wrapped around him, but the training then kicked in. I looked for an area to land and shouted up to Wayne because he had a good parachute, and we guided ourselves down into the harbour. 
  
 “It’s all part of being a skydiver. When it (the parachute) hit Wayne it bounced around, and became entangled. It’s a very dangerous sport and constant training is one of the things that keeps us there. 
  
 “It hits afterwards when you’re having a laugh and a joke. It could have been a lot worse but the training that we do as members of the parachute regiment and British Army means we know what to do. We had a giggle about it and then went for pies peas and a pint.” 
  
 (North News) 
  
 Cpl Shorthouse added: “I got Mike’s canopy wrapped around myself and we descended. I just kept hold of him by hooking my feet into very strong ropes. It’s a highly developed well designed canopy. The good parachute will always take hold of the bad parachute. 
  
 “There was a little more pressure than usual, it was a little heavier, but it was nothing unbearable. We did what we had to do to get out of the situation. We were just doing our job really.” 
  
 Brian Sherwen, official photographer at the event, said: “I was standing with the lads from the Red Arrows, and it was one of them who first noticed there was a problem. I zoomed in on them with my long lens, and I could see that one of the guys’ parachutes had not opened properly, and he was falling. 
  
 “His partner steered over to him and kicking his legs, wrapped them around his parachute, holding his weight. It must have taken incredible strength. It was nail-biting, but it all happened so quickly.” 
  
 A message was later posted on the show’s Facebook page, saying: “We can confirm that the Red Devil parachutists are both safe and sound. For the first time in 25 years they had a parachute fail. 
  
 “One team member caught his team-mate and brought him into Queens Dock. Our safety procedures worked perfectly and a huge thank you to Whitehaven Marina for getting them out of the water so quickly. The two team members are both fine.” 
  
 Lucy Milne, who was watching the display, described the horror as the men appeared to be plunging to earth. 
  
 (North News) 
  
 She told the BBC: "He was violently kicking his legs and he was trying to get free or trying to manoeuvre. Above him was another man tangled up in his parachute. His parachute was collapsed. They started picking up speed and he was wiggling his legs even more. It seemed to go on for ages and it's just seeing the panic of everyone around you and seeing it on the parachute guys as well - the panic. 
  
 "And then all of a sudden he just started to go really quick and everyone was holding their breath and then all of a sudden they were in the water. 
  
 (Stephen Miller/PA) 
  
 "Everyone was staring at the water for ages waiting for them both to pop up and then when eventually they did everyone clapped." 
  
 Dianne Richardson, a volunteer at the show, said the parachutes appeared to open initially, but that as the men were manoeuvring into the stack position something went wrong. 
  
 She said: "To be honest everybody thought they had been tangled up, but it was only afterwards that they found out that one of the guys managed to manoeuvre to safety. There are a lot of masts in the harbour. The professionalism and skills just shows why they are the best in the world. 
  
 "There was an audible sigh of relief on the harbour when they (the organisers) put the announcement out that they were safe. 
  
 Visitors to the air show, which also included displays by the RAF's Red Arrows, praised the actions of the men on the Facebook page. 
  
 Linda Weir wrote: "We were watching it on the field by the candlestick! Thank fully both were safe and well. Quick reactions on the part of his team mate. What a hero." 
  
 Sarah David wrote: “Glad to hear both are OK, was awful watching them struggling, especially when they veered off course – until we realised they were purposely targeting the biggest area of water for ditching in to.” 
  
 Army investigating Red Devils parachute incident http://t.co/AcXguWzuD0 pic.twitter.com/f1EhwjjSyl — ITV News (@itvnews) June 20, 2015 
  
 Melanie Ryden added: “We felt sick watching them tangled together and falling so fast. So relieved they landed in the water and were unhurt. Well done guys.” 
  
 Another supporter, Jilly Burr, said: "Thank God you are all OK. True professionals! Jumped with you two years ago at Langar and wouldn't hesitate to do so again. Keep up the good work guys." 
  
 Sgt Baz Loftus, the safety operations manager for the Red Devils, said: “The stunt team always has a primary landing spot as well as a number of back-up landing places – where they came down was a back-up site. The team train for this and this was an opportunity for their training to kick in. This could have been a dangerous situation - but we're trained to deal with dangerous situations.” 
  
 The Red Devils were formed in 1963 and carry out more than 60 displays every year. The team is currently made up of 12 serving soldiers from the three battalions of the Parachute Regiment, all of whom have to have at least three years experience. 
  
 Every member of the team has taken part in at least one operational tour of duty in the Falkland Islands, Northern Ireland, Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Afghanistan or Iraq. 
  
 Cpl Shorthouse, who began his service with 3 Para in 2001, has completed tours in Northern Ireland, two tours of Iraq and three tours of Afghanistan. 
  
 A look at how the mid-air rescue unfolded: 
  
 Cpl French joined the Red Devils in 2010. Apart from being part of the flying parachutes squad, he organises all the team’s tandem days where the public are able to tandem skydive with the Red Devils. 
  
 Gerard Richardson, the chief executive of the Whitehaven Festival, said: "It has to be pointed out that the skill and cool thinking of both team members to then manage to steer to safety was incredible. It's a testament to the training and the skill of the British Forces and we are just happy that last nights drama had a happy ending. 
  
 "Within ten minutes of landing the lads were tucking into pie and peas and a pint and there was an audible sigh of relief in the crowd when we were able to announce they were both safe." 
  
 An Army spokesman said: "We can confirm that there was an incident during the Whitehaven Air Show, when a member of the Red Devils display team's parachute failed to open correctly. 
  
 "A team mate assisted in his safe landing, both men were unharmed, and we are now investigating to find out the cause of the incident." |||||