Media playback is not supported on this device
After rain reduced the match to 12 overs per side, Bangladesh raced to 94-2 off eight overs when the weather intervened for the final time.
Ireland, beaten by Oman in their opening match, get one point.
But, even if they beat the Netherlands on Sunday, they cannot catch Bangladesh or Oman, who meet on the same day to determine who goes into the main draw.
Friday's earlier game between the Netherlands and Oman was abandoned without a ball bowled, eliminating the Dutch.
Even allowing for the wet conditions and the unusual circumstances of a 12-over match, Ireland, as against Oman, were poor.
Bangladesh opener Soumya Sarkar was dropped twice - once in the deep by Andy McBrine, then at mid-off by Boyd Rankin - while his partner Tamim Iqbal was missed when he should have been stumped by Niall O'Brien.
Reprieved, the pair savaged the Irish attack, adding 61 in only 27 balls. Tamim was particularly brutal, swiping four sixes in his 26-ball 47.
He chipped George Dockrell to short mid-wicket from the last delivery before the rain returned. By that point, Bangladesh were on the way to a total that would have been a huge challenge for the Irish.
Media playback is not supported on this device
It was always going to be a challenge for Ireland to claim a spot in the main draw after they were drawn in a group with an improving Bangladesh side who recently reached the Asia Cup final.
But the manner of their exit will be most disappointing.
Ireland have been used to causing upsets, most notably at the 50-over World Cup, but here the best-resourced and most experienced nation outside Test cricket were stunned by an Oman side from Division Five of the International Cricket Council's World League.
In five appearances at a World T20, the Irish have on three occasions been denied the opportunity to advance from their group by rain.
But, on the evidence of the 48 overs they have spent on the field here, they do not deserve a place in the Super 10.
Ireland captain Will Porterfield: "It is disappointing. We are out and we knew winner takes all today. It makes the loss to Oman even harder to take.
"We missed some chances but these things happen. We pride ourselves on our standards. But it pales into insignificance when the weather comes."
Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza: "It is disappointing when rain comes. But we started really well. Tamim is always important for us. He has been in form. It is a big boost to the team.
"We had a good Asia Cup. And we now have a very important match coming up. Always there is pressure on. It was a professional performance today."
Ireland face a dead rubber against the Netherlands on Sunday, while Bangladesh play Oman on the same day for a place in the main draw.