“The governor gave me a lot of vague answers in our meeting," Chance said Monday. | AP Photo Chance the Rapper burns Illinois governor 
  
 CHICAGO — After declaring his talks with Gov. Bruce Rauner accomplished nothing, Chance the Rapper donated $1 million to Chicago Public Schools on Monday — wowing his large fan base and creating an epic public relations nightmare for the Republican governor. 
  
 The three-time Grammy winner and one of the hottest up-and-coming rappers in the country announced he’d also match through his not-for-profit, Social Works, Inc. each corporate donation of $100,000 or more to the struggling school system by donating $10,000 to CPS high schools. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 (Watch the full news conference here). 
  
 Chance, whose combined Instagram and Twitter following tops 7 million people, ripped into the governor after meeting with him on Friday. 
  
 “The governor gave me a lot of vague answers in our meeting and since has called me over the weekend. Our talks were unsuccessful,” Chance said in a news conference live-streamed over Instagram and Periscope. “Gov. Rauner still won't commit to giving Chicago kids a chance without caveats or ultimatums.” 
  
 Chance spoke from Westcott Elementary School in the city, which he said would be a recipient of $10,000 of the money. Chance noted that it’s well known that Chicago and its schools have been struggling. The city has been a frequent target of President Donald Trump who repeatedly marvels on Twitter over pervasive violence on the south and west sides. 
  
 But Chance’s Monday actions also put a spotlight on the financial turmoil in which Illinois has been entrenched since Rauner has taken office. While the fight has pit the governor and the Democratic-controlled General Assembly in a standoff that has meant no budget for nearly two years, Chance used a large microphone to push responsibility for CPS’ immediate woes onto Rauner’s lap. 
  
 Rauner has been on the hot seat after he vetoed a bill that would have provided $215 million in funding for schools in Chicago. The governor admitted in a recent Chicago Tribune Editorial Board interview that he was acting on emotion. But Rauner has also long said he wanted reforms coupled with more funding for schools and has balked at giving CPS a “bailout.” 
  
 Rauner's office maintains he vetoed the funding package only after he believed Democrats were backing out of their end of the deal to make reforms in exchange for the money. 
  
 The governor took the meeting with Chance on Friday, afterward reporting a friendly visit, while Chance said he was disappointed. On Monday, after Chance announced he was holding a news conference, the governor’s office, through memos leaked to various news outlets, scrambled to come up with funding alternatives. 
  
 “The state of Illinois widened its unfair education funding further this year increasing funding for every teacher except in Chicago by $243 million and cutting funding in Chicago by $215 million,” Chance said on Monday, repeating a point often made by Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and CPS CEO Forrest Claypool. “Our kids should not be held hostage because of political position.” 
  
 Chance closed his remarks saying: “Governor Rauner, do your job!” 
  
 Chance is no stranger to politics. His father, Ken Bennett, held positions under former President Barack Obama and Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Ken Bennett also holds a position with Social Works, where the rapper said donations could be made. 
  
 Later Monday, Rauner's office noted that he and his wife had donated some $7 million to Chicago schools in the past. 
  
 “While the Rauners are passionate donors to our schools, individual contributions will never be enough to address the financial challenges facing CPS,” Rauner spokeswoman Eleni Demertzis said in a statement. “It would be helpful if CPS officials came to Springfield and joined in serious good faith discussions about the long-term stability of all of our schools.” 
  
 This article tagged under: Illinois 
  
 Music 
  
 Bruce Rauner ||||| Hours after Gov. Bruce Rauner offered two options to provide $215 million to Chicago Public Schools, Chance the Rapper cut the district a $1 million check that the Grammy-winning musician described as a "call to action" for the city's business and philanthropic community. 
  
 Chance was critical of the Republican governor's efforts to fix the city's schools during a news conference in West Chatham on the South Side, not far from the musician's old neighborhood. 
  
 "Gov. Rauner still won't commit to give Chicago's kids a chance without caveats or ultimatums," Chance told students and reporters at Westcott Elementary School. "Gov. Rauner, do your job." 
  
 Chance's comments quickly spread among his millions of social media followers and brought a dash of celebrity to a long-running fight over education funding. But they did little to resolve differences between politicians and school officials over how to dig the district out of a budget hole that could bring an early end to the school year for some 400,000 students. 
  
 The rapper had promised via Twitter to present a plan for CPS. But at an afternoon news conference, Chance said it wasn't his job to propose policy and instead promoted a fundraising campaign while urging Rauner to act. 
  
 "Gov. Rauner can use his executive power to give Chicago's children the resources they need to fulfill their God-given right to learn," the artist said. 
  
 The $1 million donation, which Chance presented in a novelty-sized check, will come from ticket sales from an upcoming tour and will go to CPS' fundraising arm. The musician also announced a series of $10,000 donations to 10 individual city schools. 
  
 After Chance the Rapper met with Gov. Bruce Rauner, the rapper donated $1 million March 6, 2017, to support arts programming for Chicago Public Schools. 
  
 Getting CPS the $215 million it had banked on to help balance this year's budget will be more complicated. The two proposals pitched by Rauner's office Monday require action from lawmakers, but the governor has spent nearly two years deadlocked with Democrats who control the General Assembly. 
  
 One option includes passing legislation that would allow Mayor Rahm Emanuel to tap into the city's tax increment financing funds. The other once again ties the money to a larger overhaul of the state's pension retirement program. 
  
 Both proposals were rejected by city and CPS officials. 
  
 Rauner's office did not respond to specific criticisms from the hip-hop star, instead noting the governor and wife Diana have long supported CPS with donations of $7 million through either personal contributions or the Rauner Family Foundation in the last few decades. But it's not possible to dig CPS out of its financial hole through that kind of philanthropy, Rauner's office said. 
  
 Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune Chance the Rapper holds a press conference at Westcott Elementary School in Chicago's Chatham neighborhood on March 6, 2017. Chance the Rapper met with Gov. Bruce Rauner last week and promised to come up with a plan for the cash-strapped Chicago Public Schools. Chance the Rapper holds a press conference at Westcott Elementary School in Chicago's Chatham neighborhood on March 6, 2017. Chance the Rapper met with Gov. Bruce Rauner last week and promised to come up with a plan for the cash-strapped Chicago Public Schools. (Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune) (Zbigniew Bzdak / Chicago Tribune) 
  
 "While the Rauners are passionate donors to our schools, individual contributions will never be enough to address the financial challenges facing CPS," said Rauner spokeswoman Eleni Demertzis. "It would be helpful if CPS officials came to Springfield and joined in serious, good-faith discussions about the long-term stability of all of our schools." 
  
 CPS officials have quietly welcomed Chance's recent use of his celebrity and a savvy social media strategy to highlight the district's financial plight. Born Chancelor Bennett, the musician has a history of criticizing government and speaking out against politicians including Emanuel. Chance's father has worked for Emanuel at City Hall. 
  
 The artist's comments on Monday at times resembled talking points used by Emanuel and school officials in their long-running battle with Rauner. The governor in December vetoed legislation that would've sent the district $215 million to ease its enormous pension burden. 
  
 "Gov. Rauner broke his promise to Chicago's children a few months ago as a result of an admitted emotional reaction, when he vetoed the $215 million in funding that Chicago schools were counting on to close out the school year," Chance said. "Our kids should not be held hostage because of political positioning." 
  
 Chance and Rauner met in Chicago on Friday to discuss CPS funding, a session the musician on Monday described as "unsuccessful." 
  
 The options presented by Rauner on Monday were both a response to public pressure from Chance and an opportunity to place the onus on CPS' financial ills elsewhere. 
  
 The TIF district idea mimics proposals promoted by the Chicago Teachers Union and makes coming up with the money the problem of state lawmakers, Emanuel and potentially aldermen. The pension idea, if executed, would get Rauner a long-sought item from his legislative and economic wish list while requiring Democrats who control the General Assembly to go against union allies who oppose the changes to the retirement system. 
  
 Michael Mahoney, Rauner's deputy chief of staff for policy and legislative affairs, wrote in a memo that "given the extraordinary mismanagement of both the city and CPS budgets, legislation could be enacted to authorize a one-time mayoral transfer of $215 million from Chicago TIF funds to CPS." 
  
 Mahoney said the city should revise its policy and allow TIF districts to collect dollars for education funding, saying the idea "represents a compromise that both attracts business investment and supports public schools." 
  
 Alternatively, the administration wants to tie broader statewide pension changes to the $215 million pension pick-up for CPS. 
  
 The school district, which has sued the state over its education funding system, quickly rejected the governor's plan. 
  
 "Yet again, Gov. Rauner is perpetuating a racially discriminatory state funding system and his so-called plan actually demands that Chicago students do more to get the same funding that every other student in the state of Illinois is entitled to receive — a gross disparity that has no place in 2017," CPS spokeswoman Emily Bittner said in a statement. 
  
 Mayoral spokesman Adam Collins characterized Rauner's latest proposals as "no solution at all." 
  
 "His plan to fix the fact that Chicago taxpayers pay twice for teacher pensions is to have them pay three times instead," Collins said in a statement. "It's past time for the governor to step up, as Chicago's taxpayers already have, and end the state's separate and unequal funding for Chicago students." |||||