The supermoon eclipse is a rare confluence of a total lunar eclipse and and lunar perigee. 
  
 A statue on the roof of the Portuguese finance ministry in Lisbon is silhouetted against a so-called 'supermoon' full moon on Saturday, Aug. 29, 2015. Supermoon, or perigee moon, is the name given when a full moon is relatively close to the Earth, making it appear bigger. 
  
 Turn your eyes to the skies Sunday evening for a rare celestial triple-header, the supermoon eclipse. 
  
 The supermoon eclipse is a confluence of three events: a full moon; a total lunar eclipse, in which the moon passes into the Earth's shadow; and lunar perigee, when the moon is in the part of its elliptical orbit closest to Earth. 
  
 As the lunar show progresses, Earthly viewers will see a large "blood moon" glowing burnt-red in the eastern sky. Where did the morbid nickname come from? 
  
 "When it is completely blocked from the sun," explainss NASA's Noah Petro, "the moon will appear a certain hue of red, which is the projection of all the sunsets on the Earth projected onto the face of the moon. It's going to be quite spectacular and very beautiful." 
  
 The red hue of the total eclipse is "a very subtle effect," Petro adds, "and if any part of the moon is illuminated in the sun, you can't really see it." 
  
 In North America, the total eclipse will start Sunday evening at 10:11 p.m. EDT and last a little over an hour. Unlike a solar eclipse, skywatchers can watch a supermoon lunar eclipse directly, without special glasses or protection. 
  
 It's a rare treat: The last supermoon eclipse occurred in 1982, and the next won't occur until 2033. Only five supermoon eclipses graced the skies throughout the entire 20th century. 
  
 Why is it so rare? 
  
 Three special celestial events must coincide for a supermoon eclipse to occur. 
  
 The first is a full moon, which typically occurs about once a month. 
  
 The second is a total lunar eclipse, in which the Earth, sun, and moon are perfectly aligned so that the moon passes directly behind the Earth into its shadow. This occurs 0-3 times per year, and always during the full moon. 
  
 Third, the moon will be at "perigee," the closest part of its orbit around Earth, which happens about once a month. At perigee, the moon appears larger than usual to Earthly observers – this is the "supermoon" part. 
  
 The orbit of the moon is not a perfect circle around the Earth, so there are times when it is closer to or farther from Earth. When it is farthest away, it's known as apogee, and when it is closest, it's known as perigee. On Sunday, the moon will be at its perigee, about 221,753 miles from Earth, or 31,000 miles closer than at apogee. At this distance, the moon will appear about 14 percent larger and 30 percent brighter than an apogee moon, making for an especially vivid night show. 
  
 Most of the world will share in this rare event. At least 2 billion people across most of North and South America, Europe, Africa, and parts of West Asia and the eastern Pacific will be able to view the supermoon eclipse, according to NASA. 
  
 The moon will begin moving into Earth's shadow around 9:07 p.m. EDT. At 10:11 p.m., it will be entirely within the Earth's shadow, giving it a red tint, where it will stay for about 72 minutes before it begins to leave Earth's shadow. It's a generous window of viewing time for celestial skygazers to enjoy the lunar show. 
  
 For those unable to view the supermoon eclipse, several webcasts will also stream live views of the event online. The Slooh Community Observatory, which provides access to remotely operated telescopes, will offer a webcast of the supermoon lunar eclipse accessible through its website. ||||| On September 27, 2015, skywatchers will enjoy a total lunar eclipse at “Supermoon”, when the Moon makes its closest approach to Earth and appears largest in the sky. Slooh members can join us for live coverage of this “Supermoon” eclipse on the evening of September 27. 
  
 During a lunar eclipse, the Moon passes into the Earth’s shadow. But it doesn’t completely go dark.That’s because the Sun’s light is refracted and scattered forward through our atmosphere and onto the Moon’s surface. Red light scatters least, so the Moon often takes on a striking dull red or copper color during a total lunar eclipse. 
  
 The September 27 eclipse will be the fourth and last eclipse of a tetrad, a series of four consecutive total lunar eclipses over two years. The first three were on April 15 and October 8 in 2014, and April 4, 2015. During this final eclipse of the tetrad, the Moon will appear nearly 13% larger than the total lunar eclipse of April 4, 2015, which occurred when the Moon was at its furthest from Earth. The April 4 eclipse lasted less than five minutes, but the September 28 “Supermoon” eclipse will last some 72 minutes, reaching totality 02:47 UT. The eclipse will be visible from beginning to end in central and eastern North America, all of South America, and western Europe. In western North America, the Moon will rise as the eclipse is in progress. 
  
 Some call the reddened Full Moon at eclipse a “Blood Moon”. Since this eclipse occurs at a “Supermoon”, some may no doubt call this a “Blood Supermoon”. But whatever you call it, this will be an event to remember. Mark your calendars to join Slooh for coverage of this total lunar eclipse on September 27. ||||| Three decades have passed since the last time Earth was witness to the triple crown of lunar events — a full moon, a lunar eclipse, and a lunar perigee all at the same time — and now people in north America will be able to see a “supermoon eclipse” this weekend. 
  
 A lunar eclipse is when the Earth comes between the full moon and the sun. Although completely in the Earth’s shadow, the moon still receives a bit of reddish sunlight. Unlike a solar eclipse, there’s no special equipment needed to view it. A supermoon is when the moon is in perigee, or the closest point to the Earth it will reach. Sunday’s moon will be about 14% larger than normal, according to NASA. 
  
 There have only been five times since 1900 where the supermoon has coincided with a total lunar eclipse— and the next won’t happen for another 18 years. 
  
 Begin looking to the moon around 8 p.m. EDT on Sunday Sept 27, with the total eclipse setting in around 10 p.m. But if there’s cloud cover or you’re unable to get to a clear patch of sky then a livestream will be on TIME.com, hosted by Slooh. The stream will be hosted by Paul Cox and Bob Berman. ||||| In the US, Canada, and Central and South America, this rare Total Lunar Eclipse of a Supermoon will begin on the evening of September 27, 2015. In Europe, South/East Asia, Africa, the Arctic, and in the Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans it starts after midnight on September 28, 2015. 
  
 Also called a Blood Moon this eclipse will last for about 1 hour and 12 minutes. 
  
 NEW: See pictures of this eclipse! 
  
 Was this Total Lunar Eclipse visible in San Francisco? 
  
 What This Lunar Eclipse Looked Like Live Eclipse Animation will start at: 
  
 Live Eclipse Animation has ended. Live  You are using an outdated browser, to view the animation please update or switch to a modern browser. Alternatively you can view the old animation by clicking here |||||