LAS VEGAS (AP) — The latest on a deadly crash on the Las Vegas Strip (all times local): 
  
 Las Vegas Metro police and crime scene investigators look over a sedan believed to have been involved in an incident where police said a woman intentionally swerved her car into pedestrians on the Las... (Associated Press) 
  
 People crowd on a sidewalk while police cars and ambulances gather on a street after a car drove onto a busy sidewalk and mowed down people outside a casino in Las Vegas, NV., Sunday, Dec. 20, 2015. A... (Associated Press) 
  
 Police and emergency crews respond to the scene of an incident along Las Vegas Boulevard, Sunday, Dec. 20, 2015, in Las Vegas. A woman intentionally swerved her car onto a busy sidewalk two or three times... (Associated Press) 
  
 10:40 a.m. 
  
 Authorities say people jumped on a car and banged on its windows as it plowed through pedestrians on a sidewalk on the Las Vegas Strip. 
  
 Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo told reporters Monday that 24-year-old Lakeisha N. Holloway wouldn't stop and it appeared from video that it was an intentional act. Her 3-year-old daughter was in the car but wasn't injured. 
  
 He says that after striking more than two dozen people, Holloway drove to a hotel and told a valet to call 911 after explaining what she had done. 
  
 Lombardo says police believe she had a falling out with the father of her child before the crash. 
  
 A drug recognition expert on the scene determined Holloway was under the influence of a "stimulant," but blood test results are pending. 
  
 He says Holloway was believed to be from Oregon and had been in Las Vegas for about a week. He says investigators believe she was homeless and living in the car. 
  
 ___ 
  
 9:55 a.m. 
  
 A government official said five Canadians were injured by a car that crashed into pedestrians on the Las Vegas Strip. 
  
 Canada's Global Affairs department spokesman John Babcock said he couldn't immediately provide information on the condition of the Canadian citizens. He says Canada is working with local authorities to provide support and assistance. 
  
 University Medical Center in Las Vegas said it treated people from Montreal who needed a French translator. 
  
 Authorities say a woman drove a car on and off the sidewalk into crowds Sunday night, injuring dozens. She is in custody. She had a 3-year-old in the car with her, but the child wasn't injured. 
  
 ___ 
  
 9:15 a.m. 
  
 Prosecutors say they expect to file murder charges and other counts against the driver who crashed into pedestrians on the Las Vegas Strip, killing an Arizona woman and injuring dozens of others. 
  
 Clark County District Attorney Steve Wolfson said Monday that the vehicle could be considered a deadly weapon. 
  
 He said, "When a person drives a 2,000-pound-plus motor vehicle intentionally onto a sidewalk, killing and injuring scores of people, that's murder." 
  
 Wolfson didn't identify the woman in custody, but police have said that she's in her 20s and recently came to Vegas. 
  
 A 10 a.m. press conference with the sheriff is scheduled to offer updates on the Sunday night crash. 
  
 ___ 
  
 8:15 a.m. 
  
 Officials say a woman from Arizona was killed when a car plowed into pedestrians on the Las Vegas Strip. 
  
 Clark County Coroner John Fudenberg (FYOU'-den-berg) said Monday that 32-year-old Jessica Valenzuela of Buckeye, Arizona, died in the crash Sunday night. 
  
 The coroner said the suburban Phoenix woman was visiting Las Vegas with her husband. A cause of death is pending, with an autopsy scheduled Monday. 
  
 Authorities say dozens of others were injured when a woman behind the wheel of a 1996 Oldsmobile sedan intentionally drove on and off the sidewalk into crowds Sunday night. The driver is in custody. 
  
 ___ 
  
 7:50 a.m. 
  
 Las Vegas police say that video of a car crashing into pedestrians on the Las Vegas Strip "looks like it's very intentional." 
  
 Capt. Brett Zimmerman said Monday that the car was fully on the sidewalk twice, including once when it traveled for 200 feet. He says the car went onto the sidewalk first near a restaurant at the Planet Hollywood hotel-casino and then again at the driveway entrance to the Paris Las Vegas hotel-casino. 
  
 Authorities say the 1996 Oldsmobile sedan intentionally drove on and off the sidewalk into crowds Sunday night, killing one person and injuring dozens of others. The driver is in custody. 
  
 ___ 
  
 7:20 a.m. 
  
 Four college students from Oregon were among those hurt when a vehicle plowed into pedestrians on a sidewalk outside a Las Vegas Strip casino. 
  
 Pacific University spokesman Joe Lang says the students are members of the wrestling team and were in Las Vegas to compete in a tournament. He says 19 athletes and coaches were walking together Sunday night when the woman swerved onto the sidewalk. 
  
 The crash killed one person and injured dozens of others. 
  
 Lang says three of the four injured students were taken to a hospital. Two students were later released, and the other was kept overnight for observation. 
  
 He says the team won't compete in Monday's tournament. 
  
 Pacific University is based in Forest Grove, about 30 miles west of Portland. 
  
 ___ 
  
 7:10 a.m. 
  
 A hospital official says three people who were injured in a crash on the Las Vegas Strip are in critical condition. 
  
 University Medical Center spokeswoman Danita Cohen said Monday that their life-threatening injuries are being closely monitored at the Las Vegas hospital. 
  
 Authorities say a car intentionally drove on and off the sidewalk into crowds near the Planet Hollywood casino-hotel Sunday night, mowing down dozens of pedestrians. The driver is in custody. 
  
 Cohen says two others at the hospital are in serious condition. One person died there, and the rest brought in for treatment have been released, including an 11-year-old. 
  
 By 6 a.m., the Las Vegas Strip had reopened after being closed for nearly 12 hours. ||||| Skip Ad Ad Loading... x Embed x Share A witness and a deputy police officer describe the scene after a woman drove her car through a crown of pedestrians in Las Vegas Sunday night. Video by Walbert Castillo for USA TODAY 
  
 Police and local officials investigate the scene on the Las Vegas Strip on Dec. 20, 2015. (Photo: AFP/Getty Images) 
  
 The woman accused of deliberately driving onto a packed sidewalk along the famed Las Vegas Strip told police she was stressed out by security guards chasing her from parking lots in which she had been trying to sleep, a police report indicates. 
  
 Lakeisha Holloway, 24, will be charged with murder with a deadly weapon and other charges related to the incident Sunday evening that left one person dead and dozens injured. District Attorney Steven Wolfson added that it was too early to determine whether the death penalty could or would be sought. 
  
 "The videos obviously show intention," Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo said at a Monday press conference. But he reiterated that there was no indication the case involved terrorism. 
  
 Lombardo put the number of injured at 35 and said three people remained in critical condition. The Clark County Coroner's Office identified the person killed as Jessica Valenzuela, 32, of Buckeye, Ariz. 
  
 Holloway lived in Oregon and had been in Las Vegas for about a week, apparently living in her 1996 Oldsmobile sedan and parking it at garages throughout the city, Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo said. After her arrest, Holloway "described a stressful period today where she was trying to rest/sleep inside her vehicle with her daughter but kept getting run off by security of the properties she stopped at," according to a police report obtained by The Associated Press. 
  
 "She ended up on the Strip, 'a place she did not want to be,'" the report quotes her as saying. "She would not explain why she drove onto the sidewalk but remembered a body bouncing off her windshield, breaking it." 
  
 Investigators said Holloway had run out of money and that she and her daughter had been living in the car. Police believe she was headed to Dallas to find her daughter's father after they had a falling out. 
  
 The tragedy unfolded on Las Vegas Boulevard, steps away from the Planet Hollywood resort where the 2015 Miss Universe pageant was crowning a winner before a live audience and TV audiences around the world. Lombardo said video from bystanders and businesses shows the car roaring onto the sidewalk at least twice, smashing into panicked pedestrians. Some fought back, jumping on the car and pounding on it in an effort to make her stop, Lombardo said. 
  
 Skip Ad Ad Loading... x Embed x Share Police arrested 24-year-old Lakeisha Holloway of Oregon in connection with the deadly crash that left one person dead and more than 30 injured. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 
  
 She finally drove the 1996 Oldsmobile around the corner and parked it at a hotel before speaking with the valet. A 3-year-old toddler in the back seat, apparently her child, was in good condition under the care of child services, Lombardo said. 
  
 Blood tests were pending. Lombardo said Holloway did not appear to be drunk when she talked with officers, but a drug expert said she appeared to be under the influence of a stimulant. 
  
 On Monday, Holloway was under an around-the-clock suicide watch at the Clark County jail, deputy public defender Scott Coffee told The Associated Press. 
  
 Holloway’s cousin, LaShay Hardaway, told the Los Angeles Times that Holloway was a hardworking fashion designer who doesn't suffer from any mental health issues as far as she knows. 
  
 She said Holloway had gone to Las Vegas “to go and check out the economy, and some other things.” She also said Holloway “wasn’t homeless, she lived with my mom.” 
  
 Hardaway said her cousin "makes a pretty good living." She said it was her understanding that Holloway had a hotel room in Las Vegas, contrary to officials’ remarks that she was living out of her car. 
  
 She said Holloway is a former fashion model who attended Portland Community College and had created her own fashion line. Oregon business records showed that she had started a women's clothing business in April called "Modeltype," the Times reported. 
  
 Antonio Nassar told the Las Vegas Sun he had just walked out of Planet Hollywood when he saw the car roar onto the sidewalk, slamming into stunned pedestrians. It briefly dragged a young boy, he said. The sound of the car hitting people was like "watermelons falling on the sidewalk," Nassar said. 
  
 "It was chaotic," Nassar told the Sun. "I was running down the street saying, 'Move! Move! Get out of the way!'" 
  
 Tourist Justin Cochrane said he and two other people had just sat down for dinner when the car began careening onto the sidewalk. 
  
 "It was mayhem and it was very intentional," Cochran told CNN. "People were flying. It was a sound I will never forget. It (the car) wasn't hitting cars, it was hitting people." 
  
 The case is not unprecedented. Ten years ago, the driver of a stolen car deliberately plowed into pedestrians on the Strip, killing three people and injuring a dozen others. Stephen Ressa, of Rialto, Calif., pleaded guilty but mentally ill and was sentenced to life in prison without parole. 
  
 Contributing: The Associated Press; Greg Toppo, USA TODAY 
  
 Skip Ad Ad Loading... x Embed x Share Las Vegas Police say they are investigating Sunday night's crash as a possibly intentional act, but terrorism was ruled out. A car hit several dozen people in front of two busy hotels. At least one person died. More than 30 were hurt. (Dec. 21) AP 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1YvV0P7 ||||| Las Vegas Boulevard is open after nearly 11 hours of being shut down following Sunday night's crash and the one person who lost their life has been identified by the coroner. 
  
 The Strip reopened about 5:45 a.m. Monday, according to Metro Lt. David Gordon. 
  
 The Clark County coroner identified the one fatality as 32-year-old Jessica Valenzuela of Buckeye, Arizona. 
  
 A woman in her 20's drove her vehicle onto the sidewalk of Las Vegas Boulevard injuring 37 people and killing one just after 6:30 p.m. Sunday. 
  
 The female driver of the 1996 Oldsmobile four-door sedan was arrested near the Tuscany hotel on Flamingo Road shortly after the crash, which happened in front of the Paris Las Vegas and Planet Hollywood hotels. She was interviewed and tested for impairment, Metro Capt. Peter Boffelli told media gathered on Las Vegas Boulevard at about 8:45 p.m Sunday. 
  
 The driver, who is not from Las Vegas, has been taken to Clark County Detention Center. Police are getting a warrant for a blood test, but she wasn't exhibiting extreme impairment, according to police Lt. Dan McGrath. 
  
 He confirmed that a 3-year-old toddler was in the car with the driver and was unharmed. 
  
 This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 
  
 Reporter Ricardo Torres contributed to this story. 
  
 Contact Lawren Linehan at llinehan@reviewjournal.com or at 702-383-0381. Find her on Twitter: @lawrenlinehan |||||