The visitors started brightly and their first chance fell to Oliver Rathbone, who tried his luck from outside the area but saw his effort sail over the bar.
Rochdale's Keith Keane was given a straight red card by referee Lee Probert in the 21st minute after fouling Conor Chaplin when the striker ran through on goal.
The home side made the extra man count in the 46th minute when Pitman dribbled his way into the area and had two shots blocked before eventually curling it past Josh Lillis into the bottom corner.
Probert dished out another straight red card in the 81st minute, this time sending off Pompey's Jamal Lowe for a high challenge on Jamie Allen.
However, Pitman headed in his second goal of the match in the 92nd minute to secure victory for the home side after he was picked out by Gareth Evans.
Match report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Portsmouth 2, Rochdale 0.
Second Half ends, Portsmouth 2, Rochdale 0.
Attempt missed. Brett Pitman (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Attempt blocked. Kal Naismith (Portsmouth) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Goal!  Portsmouth 2, Rochdale 0. Brett Pitman (Portsmouth) header from the centre of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Gareth Evans with a cross.
Drew Talbot (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Kgosi Ntlhe (Rochdale).
Foul by Kal Naismith (Portsmouth).
Joseph Rafferty (Rochdale) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Attempt blocked. Ian Henderson (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Kal Naismith (Portsmouth).
Matt Done (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Reece Brown (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Jamie Allen (Rochdale) because of an injury.
Jamal Lowe (Portsmouth) is shown the red card.
Foul by Jamal Lowe (Portsmouth).
Jamie Allen (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Gareth Evans (Portsmouth).
Kgosi Ntlhe (Rochdale) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Brett Pitman (Portsmouth).
Oliver Rathbone (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is just a bit too high.
Drew Talbot (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Matt Done (Rochdale).
Substitution, Rochdale. Steve Davies replaces Andrew Cannon.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Oliver Rathbone (Rochdale).
Substitution, Portsmouth. Kal Naismith replaces Conor Chaplin.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andrew Cannon (Rochdale).
Attempt missed. Jamal Lowe (Portsmouth) left footed shot from more than 35 yards is close, but misses to the right.
Attempt missed. Joseph Rafferty (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Foul by Brett Pitman (Portsmouth).
Matt Done (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Rochdale. Conceded by Jack Whatmough.
Attempt missed. Andrew Cannon (Rochdale) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top left corner.
Corner,  Rochdale. Conceded by Danny Rose.
Attempt blocked. Reece Brown (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Carl Baker (Portsmouth).