Redmond O’Neal, the only son of Ryan O’Neal and Farrah Fawcett, has struggled with a serious drug addiction for many years. Now that a Los Angeles Superior Court judge has revoked his probation and issued a no-bail bench warrant for his arrest in April, his half sister, Tatum O’Neal, admits she is extremely worried for his safety – and his life. “I love him, but I have never seen a more scary side of addiction,” O’Neal, 51, tells PEOPLE in this week’s issue. 
  
 O’Neal, 51, last saw Redmond, who’s been arrested numerous times on drug- and weapons-related charges, some eight months ago when he visited her at her Los Angeles home. “He’s got addiction problems so bad that it breaks my heart,” says O’Neal. “Nobody knows what to do with Redmond. From what I’ve seen, there is no way he’s going to survive.” 
  
 “I wanted him to have a safe place to put his head down, not on the streets and not with his dealer,” says O’Neal, whose own battle with addiction was documented in her 2004 memoir A Paper Life. “He’s been so kind to me. I try to love him so he can love himself.” 
  
 It’s a glimpse of the troubled 30-year-old that few have seen. “I told him how beautiful and how strong he is and ‘You can do this,’ ” she says of urging him to quit drugs. “I asked him, why don’t you come to a [12-step] meeting with me? He said, ‘I don’t want to go to any meetings.’ I wanted to mother him. Now that his mother is gone, I wanted him to know there was a woman in his life he could turn to. But unfortunately the disease has overtaken him.” 
  
 The family’s cycle of addiction is the theme of a well-received new novel, Our Town, by Tatum’s son Kevin McEnroe. The book is a devastating fictional account of the life of Tatum’s mom, the beautiful and fragile actress Joanna Moore, an alcoholic and pill addict. Of his family’s long history of addiction, McEnroe says, “I think more than addiction and alcoholism, what was passed down to us was not believing in yourself – and that pairs very well with alcohol and substance abuse.” 
  
 For the full interview with Tatum O’Neal and Kevin McEnroe, pick up a copy of this week’s PEOPLE, on newsstands Friday ||||| Redmond O'Neal in 2011. (Photo: KAREN BLEIER, AFP/Getty Images) 
  
 Redmond O'Neal, the son of Farrah Fawcett and Ryan O'Neal, was arrested Tuesday around 2:30 a.m. in Los Angeles on suspicion of robbing a convenience store, the Los Angeles Police Department confirmed to USA TODAY. 
  
 Police responded to a call of a robbery at a convenience store and met with the clerk, who said O'Neal approached him with a knife and demanded money, LAPD officer Rosario Herrera told USA TODAY. The clerk gave O'Neal money from the register and he fled the store on foot, with police later finding him on the street and detaining him, finding both the cash and knife in his possession. He is currently being held on a $50,000 bail. 
  
 O'Neal, 33, was arrested in 2011 for possession of heroin and possession of a gun by a felon, following a previous DUI and drugs charge in 2008. In 2015, O'Neal was sentenced to three years in prison for violating his parole, but he was released before the end of his sentence. 
  
 Redmond has struggled with substance abuse over the years, with his half-sister Tatum O'Neal telling People in 2015 that "he's got addiction problems so bad that it breaks my heart." 
  
 “I love him, but I have never seen a more scary side of addiction," she said. "Nobody knows what to do with Redmond. From what I’ve seen, there is no way he’s going to survive.” 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2rEghyH ||||| Redmond O'Neal in a picture released by the Los Angeles Police Department. (Photo: Los Angeles Police Department) 
  
 The Los Angeles Police Department are charging Redmond O'Neal, the son of the late Farrah Fawcett and actor Ryan O'Neal, as the man behind a violent crime spree in Southern California. 
  
 Police believe O'Neal, 33, randomly attacked five men in unprovoked confrontations starting on May 2 through May 5. Two of the five men were seriously injured, with one man found in a pool of blood with stab wounds to his face and upper body. 
  
 After an investigation, the Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office filed one count of attempted murder against O'Neal on Friday, two counts of assault with a deadly weapon, one count of brandishing a knife and one count of battery — all related to the crime spree. 
  
 O’Neal is in Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department custody. He was arrested on May 8 for suspicion of robbing a 7-11 convenience store at knifepoint. 
  
 After O’Neal’s arrest, the violent area crime spree ended and investigating detectives found O’Neal to strongly match the suspect description in other crimes. 
  
 More: Redmond O'Neal, Farrah Fawcett's son, arrested for robbing convenience store at knifepoint 
  
 Redmond O'Neal in 2011. (Photo: KAREN BLEIER, AFP/Getty Images) 
  
 The other attacks include: 
  
 May 2, 8 p.m.: A suspect fitting O'Neal's description became angry after the victim "appeared to look at him," according to a police statement. The suspect then punched the victim, armed himself with a broken glass bottle and unsuccessfully tried to strike the victim before fleeing. The victim sustained minor injuries to his face. 
  
 May 3, 3:30 a.m.: A suspect became angry with a man leaving a convenience store and repeatedly punched the victim in the head and threw him to the ground, according to police. The suspect then fled. The victim sustained minor head injuries. 
  
 May 4, 5:00 p.m.: A male victim near the Venice Beach boardwalk looked at the suspect, "at which time, the suspect stabbed him with a knife," according to police. Paramedics treated the victim for a serious stab wound to the left side of his body. 
  
 May 4, 8:30 p.m. Several people found a victim laying in a pool of blood with obvious stab wounds to his face and upper body. According to police, a nearby video surveillance camera captured a person matching O'Neal's description exiting the area. The victim sustained "significant and serious stab wounds and cuts to his face, neck, and upper body." 
  
 Redmond O'Neal is the son of Ryan O'Neal and Farrah Fawcett. (Photo: Ray Stubblebine, AP) 
  
 May 5, 4:00 p.m: A suspect matching O'Neal's description became belligerent inside a coffee shop and brandished a folding knife at an employee, according to police. The suspect lunged, jabbed and threatened to harm the employee with the knife before fleeing. 
  
 O'Neal has a troubled history with the law. He was arrested in 2011 for possession of heroin and possession of a gun by a felon, following a previous DUI and drugs charge in 2008. In 2015, he was sentenced to three years in prison for violating parole, but he was released before the end of his sentence. 
  
 Redmond has struggled with substance abuse over the years, with his half-sister Tatum O'Neal telling People in 2015 that "he's got addiction problems so bad that it breaks my heart." 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2JrZqXq |||||