The man accused of killing a Prince George's County firefighter is released from custody. News4's Darcy Spencer reports. (Published Sunday, April 17, 2016) 
  
 As police worked Saturday to determine why a person opened fire on firefighters who were responding to a call for help at a home in a Maryland suburb of Washington, the alleged shooter was released from custody. 
  
 The Prince George’s County State Attorney’s Office told News4's Darcy Spencer they do not have enough evidence to charge and prosecute the accused shooter at this time. 
  
 The man told detectives he fired in self-defense, believing he was in danger from unknown people breaking into his home. 
  
 "The citizen’s brother thought he was in medical duress, called for assistance, and his brother did not realize the firefighters were there to assist him and reacted as if his house was being broken into," said Angela Alsobrooks, the Prince George’s County state’s attorney. 
  
 Repairmen were at the home Saturday, fixing the front door that had been forced open. A fire department spokesman said there will be a review to see if policies need to be changed. 
  
 John Ulmschneider, a 13-year veteran of the Prince George's County Fire Department, died Friday night after he was shot while trying to enter a home to make a welfare check, police said. 
  
 Volunteer firefighter Kevin Swain, 19, also was shot, and was in serious but stable condition after coming out of surgery Saturday, department officials said. Swain, who authorities say was shot four times, is expected to survive. 
  
 Morningside Fire Department volunteer firefighter Kevin Swain was shot responding to a medical call in Maryland. 
  
 Photo credit: Sykesville-Freedom Fire Department 
  
 Firefighters had gone to the Temple Hills home after the brother of the man who lived there told authorities he was concerned about the man's safety, said Mark Brady, spokesman for the fire department. 
  
 The man said his brother had trouble controlling his blood sugar and recently blacked out. He told authorities he was worried because his brother wasn't answering the phone or the door and his car was parked in the driveway, Brady said. 
  
 Video Video Shows Person of Interest in Texas Slaying 
  
 When the firefighters arrived on the scene, the person inside was unresponsive, so they decided to force entry, police said. As that was happening, the person inside fired several rounds, striking two firefighters and his brother, authorities said. Police said that once firefighters got into the home, the gunfire stopped. 
  
 There were no police officers present when the firefighters decided to enter the home, Prince George's County Police Department spokeswoman Julie Parker. 
  
 Brady said that's something firefighters do fairly routinely when there's a concern about someone's safety. He said anytime there is an incident such as this, the department will review its protocols and possibly make changes. 
  
 "The firefighter medics made a decision that this was indeed a reason they needed to get into that house as soon as possible. Time could have been of the essence," he said. 
  
 Brady said Ulmschneider was described as a "good old hard working country boy who loved his job." A You Caring fund has been set up for his wife and 2-year-old daughter. 
  
 Recruit photo of Firefighter/Medic John Ernest Ulmschneider taken 13 years ago at his recruit graduation from the Fire/EMS Training Academy. He was killed in the line of duty on April 15, 2016 
  
 Photo credit: Prince George's County Fire/EMS Department 
  
 Diana Krieger, whose daughter is married to Ulmschneider's brother, told The Washington Post that he was a "caring man" who had dreamed of being a firefighter since high school. 
  
 "He wanted to help others, he loved doing what he was doing, being a paramedic and a firefighter, and I really believe that he was doing God's work," Krieger told the newspaper. 
  
 Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan ordered the state's flag to be flown at half-staff in Ulmschneider's memory. 
  
 "His legacy as a husband, father and firefighter, and his commitment to protecting others, will not soon be forgotten by his loved ones, the community, or Maryland," Hogan said in a statement. 
  
 The brother of the man who lived at the home was not seriously injured, Prince George's County police Chief Henry P. Stawinski III said at a news conference. 
  
 Two other firefighters with the Morningside Volunteer Fire Department suffered minor injuries while seeking cover after the shooting. One firefighter injured a knee and the other injured her jaw. The two were treated at the hospital and released Saturday. 
  
 Copyright Associated Press / NBC4 Washington ||||| Police say the man who fatally shot Prince George's County firefighter John Ulmschneider has been released from custody and is not facing charges at this time. (Reuters) 
  
 Police say the man who fatally shot Prince George's County firefighter John Ulmschneider has been released from custody and is not facing charges at this time. (Reuters) 
  
 The sister of a man who shot at Prince George’s County firefighters as they forced their way into his house Friday said her brother was trying to defend himself, thinking someone was breaking into his home. 
  
 “It was a tragic horror story,” the man’s sister said Sunday in an interview. “My brother was very sick. He is a gentle person.” 
  
 Firefighters and medics responding to an emergency call from a man who had been unable to reach his diabetic brother decided to break through the brother’s front door in the Temple Hills-Camp Springs area when he did not respond to repeated knocks. As they entered — fearing he might have blacked out or had a seizure — gunshots erupted from inside, killing firefighter John E. Ulmschneider and injuring another and the man’s brother, who was outside with them. 
  
 “We are so sorry about the firefighter and for the family,” the man’s sister said. “We were praying so hard.” 
  
 The sister spoke on the condition of anonymity to protect the privacy of her family. She said her brother is still being monitored by doctors, but she declined to specify his medical condition. The Washington Post is not identifying the man because he has not been charged and police have not named him publicly. Efforts to reach the man by phone Sunday were not successful. 
  
 The 61-year-old man was released from police custody Saturday night, according to authorities. 
  
 A spokesman for the Prince George’s County state’s attorney’s office and a fire department spokesman said Sunday that the sister’s account of the shooting is consistent with preliminary assessments that it may have been a tragic mistake. 
  
 The state’s attorney’s office is continuing to investigate with police to “piece together what happened,” said a spokesman for the office, John Erzen. “We will determine what, if any, charges are appropriate.” 
  
 Mark Brady, a fire department spokesman, said that the shooter “has been consistent from the first moment to the end” in his interviews with police. 
  
 On Friday night, rescuers announced themselves loudly three times and knocked repeatedly at the door before trying to enter. 
  
 Brady said the rescuers made the decision not to wait for police to arrive because they “felt compelled that there could be a medical emergency going on” and “had to enter the house as soon as possible.” 
  
 Shots were fired in their direction as they tried to get in, authorities said. 
  
 The wounded firefighter, Kevin Swain, 19, was shot four times and underwent surgery at Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore. Brady said Sunday that Swain, a volunteer at the Morningside station, continues to make progress and that the department “looks forward to him making a full recovery.” 
  
 The injured brother was shot in the shoulder and was listed in fair condition at a hospital, officials said. They did not identify either brother by name. 
  
 On Saturday, family members and colleagues mourned the death of Ulmschneider and prayed for Swain’s recovery. At Ulmschneider’s station in Landover Hills, black bunting was draped over the firehouse and along the hood of an ambulance parked on the lawn. 
  
 Ulmschneider, 37, had been in the department for 13 years and was married and the father of a 2-year-old girl, officials said. 
  
 Ulmschneider worked at several fire departments to pick up overtime. On Friday night, fire officials said, he was on assignment with the Forestville Fire-EMS station, but he typically worked at the Landover Hills Fire-EMS station. 
  
 In a statement, Prince George’s County Executive Rushern L. Baker III (D) called Ulmschneider “a dependable family man who loved serving this county as both a firefighter and paramedic.” 
  
 Lori Aratani, Fenit Nirappil and Rachel Weiner contributed to this report. ||||| A man who police say opened fire on two firefighters carrying out a welfare check at his Temple Hills, Maryland, home, allegedly thought someone was breaking into his house, so "he took action to defend himself," a fire department spokesman told ABC News. 
  
 Police have interviewed the suspect, who has been released without charges since the Friday night shooting that killed one, and "his story has remained consistent in that he thought someone was breaking into his house," Mark Brady, chief spokesman for the Prince George's County Fire Department, told ABC News today. 
  
 The incident began when firefighters responded to a "check on the welfare" call after a man reported that he could not contact his brother who lives in the home, the fire department said. After no one answered the door, firefighters entered, and the homeowner fired at firefighters and the brother who had called 911. 
  
 The firefighters had "pounded on the door" and announced themselves as the fire department, Brady said, but the homeowner "felt someone was breaking into his house and that’s when he took action to defend himself." 
  
 John Ulmschneider, 37, a 13-year veteran firefighter, died from the shooting. He is survived by his wife and 2-year-old daughter. 
  
 PGFD FF/Medic Ulmschneiders duty station at Landover Hills has black bunting affixed to front and his locker inside pic.twitter.com/CqIrINDffG — Mark Brady (@PGFDPIO) April 16, 2016 
  
 Firefighter Kevin Swain was shot four times but survived and underwent surgery at the Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore. 
  
 Brady told ABC News today that Swain, 19, is "making improvements" and is expected to make a full recovery. 
  
 The suspected shooter, whose identity was not released, was taken into custody and released Saturday after being questioned, a police spokesman said. Since no charges were formally filed, the shooter could not be held, the spokesman said, adding that the investigation was ongoing. 
  
 Brady said earlier that the brother who called 911 told authorities his brother had been having trouble with his blood sugar and recently blacked out, and he was concerned because his brother wasn’t answering his phone or the door, Brady said. 
  
 The brother's injuries from the shooting were not considered serious, officials said. ||||| (Reuters) - The man who fatally shot a Maryland firefighter and critically wounded another said he had thought he was stopping an attempted break-in when he opened fire, authorities said on Sunday. 
  
 Firefighter/Medic John Ernest Ulmschneider is pictured in this undated handout photo provided by Prince George's County Fire Department, on April 16, 2016. REUTERS/Prince George's County Fire Department/Handout via Reuters 
  
 The shooter, who has not been officially identified, was interviewed by police and released on Saturday evening, about 24 hours after the shooting took place, Prince George’s County Fire Department chief spokesman Mark Brady said. 
  
 “The way we’re looking at it now is it’s a terrible, terrible tragedy for everybody involved,” Brady said. 
  
 The firefighters were responding to a call on Friday to check on the well-being of a man whose brother had been unable to contact him, Brady said. 
  
 He said the brother told emergency responders that the shooter was a diabetic, was having difficulty controlling his blood sugar recently, and had passed out just days earlier. 
  
 When firefighters arrived, they pounded on the door and announced themselves as the fire department. When no one answered the door, the firefighters began forcing their way into the house and were struck by gunfire, Brady said. 
  
 John Ulmschneider, a 37-year-old firefighter and medic, died as a result of his injuries at an area hospital late on Friday. Kevin Swain, 19, a volunteer firefighter in Morningside, Maryland, remained hospitalized on Sunday and was showing signs of improvement, Brady said. 
  
 The shooter’s brother was also struck in the shoulder by gunfire, but his injuries were not life-threatening, Brady said. 
  
 Two other volunteers with the department sustained less serious injuries while seeking cover in the shootings. They were released from the hospital on Saturday. 
  
 Prince George’s County Police could not be immediately reached for comment. |||||