More Photos Click thumbnails to enlarge Members of the Marist crew team stand next to the head after it was towed ashore. (Photo provided by Marist College) 
  
 The large head floats on the Hudson River on Tuesday. (Photo provided by Marist College) 
  
 It was like something out of a low-budget, black-and-white horror movie. 
  
  
  
 Early Tuesday, the coach of Marist College’s crew team saw a strange object in the distance, floating in the shipping lane of the Hudson River near the town of Poughkeepsie school. 
  
  
  
 As Matt Lavin moved in for a closer look, he discovered the object was a head — not a real one, but a 7-foot-high fiberglass head, without a body (or a nose, for that matter), bobbing in the river’s choppy waters, according to Greg Cannon, director of public affairs for the college. 
  
  
  
 It looked like something from atop a Roman or Greek statue. 
  
  
  
 “Coach was more than a little surprised at the discovery, but crew members attached it to his launch and they towed the head to the Marist dock,” Cannon said on Wednesday. 
  
  
  
 “The head, made of Styrofoam with a fiberglass covering, was waterlogged and quite heavy,” Cannon said. “It took about six crew guys to get up onto the dock.” 
  
  
  
 Cannon said the head measures about 7 foot high and 4 to 5 feet wide. 
  
  
  
 “The crew guys are fairly tall, and the head is their height or taller,” he said. 
  
  
  
 Cannon said Lavin towed the head because, being in the river’s shipping lane, “it was a navigational hazard,.” 
  
  
  
 Asked the obvious question — Where do you think it came from? — Cannon said, “We have no idea.” Continued... ||||| Mysterious Hudson River giant head found by Marist crew 
  
 Galleries Hudson River giant head 
  
 Marist crew coach Matt Lavin was on the Hudson River with his team a few minutes after sunrise Tuesday when he saw an indistinct shape bobbing on the surface of the water. 
  
 As the rowers got closer, they realized they were looking at a Styrofoam rendering of a head, cased in Fiberglas and made to look like a stone statue in the style of ancient Greece or Rome. 
  
 It "looked like something out of a futuristic dystopian movie," Lavin said. "I thought it was Lady Liberty's head." 
  
 As in the "Planet of the Apes" Lady Liberty, poking out of the sands on some forgotten shore? 
  
 "That's exactly what I was thinking of," Lavin said. 
  
 While it was clear the head wasn't of ancient provenance, its origins are a mystery. Lavin said he thinks it was floating downriver, and there's no indication the head was spotted south of Poughkeepsie. 
  
 But the Hudson River is a tidal estuary, famously named by Native Americans as "the river that flows both ways" with tidal forces pushing saltwater north from the Atlantic and a current from the river's source flowing downriver to the south. That means it's possible the head could have come from either direction. 
  
 "It's a mystery we're trying to solve," said Greg Cannon, the college's spokesman. 
  
 Cannon and Lavin believe the head was some sort of decoration, possibly a theater prop. The head may have been severed from a matching body -- a body that, at 30 to 40 feet, would be hard to miss. Users on a pair of Reddit threads also speculated about its origin, but no one's sure exactly where it came from or how it ended up in the Hudson River. 
  
 It took about 10 rowers to haul the head from the river onto the Marist boat dock, about a mile north of the Mid-Hudson Bridge and the Walkway Over the Hudson. Lavin took several photos of the head on the water and on the boat dock, and the images were making the rounds on several websites Tuesday. 
  
 "We're hoping to hear from somebody who might know where it came from," Cannon said. |||||