Don't take my word for it.
Scotland's first minister has appeared on Radio 4's Desert Island Discs, so these choices of words, records and books are hers, not mine.
"My childhood obsession with the wonderful Cilla Black," the SNP leader tells Kirsty Young, led to "the first ever tantrum I remember".
Her mum and dad had said no when she asked if they would buy her Cilla's new album.
But her "wonderful grandad" saved the day and bought it for her instead.
Nicola Sturgeon's desert island choices:
Records:
Book:  Complete Works of Jane Austen
Luxury: Coffee maker, coffee cup and milk
Track to save: My Love is Like a Red, Red Rose.
We learn too that this leader first politicised by Margaret Thatcher - what she describes as "the sense of hopelessness in the community I was growing up in, being inflicted by a government most in Scotland hadn't voted for" - is now reading Charles Moore's biography of the former prime minister.
She is fascinated, she explains, by "the art and science of decision making."
Nicola Sturgeon is a leader still learning her craft.
She took over as Scotland's first minister in 2014 from Alex Salmond, having served as his deputy.
"Nothing quite prepares you for that first moment when you've got a big decision to make," she reflects. "That feeling in my stomach and the guy next door wasn't there to pass it on to!"
It has been quite an 18 months for Nicola Sturgeon.
From losing Scotland's referendum on independence, which left her "in floods of tears… totally and utterly devastated" to the euphoria of this year's general election, where the SNP won every seat in Scotland bar three.
But this was an interview more about what makes Scotland's first minister tick than day-to-day politics.
Her nationalism, her instinct that Scotland would be better off as an independent country, had been shaped, she says, by her grandmother.
Her English grandmother.
"She came from just outside Sunderland and yet had this belief that Scotland should be an independent country," the SNP leader says.
Her views had a lasting impression on a young Nicola Sturgeon, in how she perceives nationalism - and how she sees that at odds with how some perceived her during the referendum campaign.
"I detested that sense that what we were arguing for was a rejection of England as a country, or England as a people."
"It is not about antipathy or hostility towards England," she says, and the implication it was "genuinely upset me."
How much does it matter to her that she is Scotland's first female first minister?
After all, one of her musical choices was 'Sisters are Doin' it for Themselves' by the Eurythmics and Aretha Franklin.
"This is the song that speaks to the feminist in me," she says.
But would a self-styled "feminist" give an interview to Vogue, spread over seven pages of the magazine?
"I do struggle a bit with this, I want politics to be accessible. But there is too much focus on what women wear. I am a wee bit contradicted and conflicted on that," she admits.
She acknowledged too being left feeling hurt by stories about why she never had children.
"People make assumptions about why, and frankly those people know nothing of the reality of that. The assumption that people sometimes make is that I have made a cold, calculated decision to put my career ahead of having a family, and that is not true," she says, adding:
"Sometimes things happen in life, sometimes they don't. I don't have any regrets. If I could turn the clock back… I wouldn't want to fundamentally change the path my life has taken."
Her favourite record of all combines her pride in Scotland and love of her husband, the SNP's chief executive, Peter Murrell.
It is "My Love is Like a Red, Red Rose" - by Robert Burns and sung by Eddi Reader.
It was played on their wedding day.
But, of course, on Kirsty Young's mythical desert island, Nicola Sturgeon would be on her own; her husband, a good cook, not there.
"I am not practical in the slightest," she said. "I wouldn't survive a week!"
You can hear Nicola Sturgeon on Desert Island Discs on BBC Radio 4 on Sunday from 11:15 GMT.