Photo: @saladinahmed/Twitter 
  
 Corn Pops cereal boxes are getting a hasty makeover after a customer noticed that the current packaging makes incredibly racist assumptions about the occupations of darker-skinned people. Right now, the back panel of Kellogg’s beloved puffy cereal has a scene depicting some kind of mall theme — cartoon corn pops just chillin’ at the local shopping mall, like everybody does these days. To be completely honest, the Where’s Waldo–y theme makes very little sense: None of the characters are carrying shopping bags, and nearly all of them qualify as some sort of public menace, either because they’re snorkeling in the water fountain, playing hockey (with a fellow corn pop as the puck!), stilt-walking on spoons, or preparing to drop large objects on passersby below. 
  
 But the scene was drawn for kids who think rule-breaking is hilarious, and that’s what bothered Marvel Comics writer Saladin Ahmed, who brought the panel to Kellogg’s attention yesterday on Twitter. 
  
 hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism. pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 
  
 Ahmed didn’t appreciate how all of Kellogg’s mallgoers are corn-pop yellow except for a solitary brown one. It’s shown waxing the floors, as opposed to having fun, because it’s the mall’s janitor. Ahmed scolded the company for being so boneheaded, arguing that its cereal-box scene “is teaching kids racism.” He explained its subliminal effect in a subsequent post: 
  
 yes its a tiny thing, but when you see your kid staring at this over breakfast and realize millions of other kids are doing the same… — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 
  
 To the cereal-maker’s credit, Ahmed also noted, it responded to his tweet in about five hours, promising that the offending image is being replaced with something more racially sensitive: 
  
 Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion. We did not intend to offend – we apologize. The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon. — Kellogg's (@KelloggsUS) October 24, 2017 
  
 A spokesperson followed up with a statement to USA Today stressing their “commitment to diversity and inclusion,” and saying that the “artwork has been updated and will begin to appear on store shelves soon as it flows through distribution.” ||||| Welcome to the latest edition of Marketer's Brief, a quick take on marketing news, moves and trends from Ad Age's reporters and editors. Send tips/suggestions to [email protected] 
  
 In the latest how-did-they-not-catch-this marketing blunder, Kellogg is on the defensive for an ill-conceived cereal box design that some observers are calling racist. The Corn Pops mistake leads today's Brief, which also has news on Coke's state-themed cola play and a new coffee marketed for people and their dogs. Bark, or barf? 
  
 How did this happen? 
  
 Games and drawings on the backs of cereal boxes are meant to be a fun diversion. But when novelist Saladin Ahmed saw a box of Corn Pops, the darker coloring of a Corn Pop character stood out. The box depicts a mall scene filled with cartoonish Corn Pop characters, with instructions for activities such as spotting differences between certain ones. 
  
 KelloggsUS cereal box Credit: via Saladin Ahmed/Twitter 
  
 The thing is, all the Corn Pop characters appear to have the same yellow-ish hue except for a darker one who is pushing a machine to clean or buff the floor. Ahmed took the marketer to task on Twitter. 
  
 hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism. pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 
  
 Kellogg responded via its @KelloggsUS twitter handle on Tuesday, saying "Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion. We did not intend to offend – we apologize. The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon." (It also issued a statement with a similar message.) Ahmed, who is currently writing the Black Bolt series for Marvel Comics, responded that he "genuinely" appreciated the rapid response. Later, Ahmed summed up the issue (and perhaps the entire year in marketing and politics) in another tweet: 
  
 today I used the computer in my pocket to get a cereal company to make their boxes less racist what even is the 21st century — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 25, 2017 
  
 Of course, it begs the question how the image got onto the boxes in the first place. Corn Pops is clearly not the only brand to be put on the defensive against charges that its marketing is racially tone-deaf. Dove, anyone? And who could forget Pepsi and Kendall Jenner. Consumer packaged-good marketers are known for research rigor, but clearly something is amiss these days. 
  
 Coca-Cola California Raspberry Credit: Coca-Cola 
  
 Have a Coke, and Georgia peach? 
  
 As it pursues the burgeoning craft and specialty soda segment, PepsiCo has ventured beyond its flagship Pepsi-Cola brand name with offerings such as Stubborn Soda and Caleb's Kola. But Coca-Cola Co. appears to be taking a different approach in the segment, as evidenced by two new sodas that stick with the Coke trademark. Launching in March are Coca-Cola Georgia Peach and Coca-Cola California Raspberry. The state-branded, fruit-flavored sodas are made with cane sugar and packaged in 12-ounce glass bottles. This type of attempted localization of a global brand is reminiscent Budweiser's recent move to slap state names on bottles of Bud. 
  
 Sears bottoms out on Whirlpool 
  
 And another one bites the dust. After a century, Sears and Whirlpool are calling it quits. The struggling retailer will no longer sell Whirlpool products, including those under brands such as KitchenAid and Maytag. Earlier this year, Sears peddled its Craftsman tools line to Stanley Black & Decker, ending decades of exclusivity. Lowe's is now also carrying the Craftsman line. Meanwhile, Sears is selling its Kenmore collection via Amazon and has put VR assistant Alexa in Kenmore appliances in another example of joining them when you can't beat them. 
  
 The horror! Even plumbing fixtures get spooky ads 
  
 Marketers seemingly can't get enough horror ads of late, like those Mars "Bite Size Horror" mini-films. Why should plumbing be different? Clog preventer Drain Strain now has a nearly 7-minute horror infomercial. Spoiler alert: The undead have the same drain-clog issues as everyone else, which also can be solved in under a minute. Drain Strain already has gotten support thanks to "Shark Tank," and is using the horror video to fuel an Indiegogo push. 
  
 A cure for health insurance headaches? 
  
 For any consumers who have ever had difficulty navigating the choppy waters of health insurance (so, everyone), ZocDoc, the online doctor finding service, now has an Insurance Checker, which allows patients to find insurance plans and get plan details before they book. The checker uses artificial intelligence in the Zocdoc app to match details on physical insurance cards with plan information when patients scan a card image to their smartphone. Zocdoc is also offering a more universal insurance card template for insurers that has all the information for patients made more easily decipherable, the company said. The company collaborated with agency Office of Baby on a video to explain the new offerings. 
  
 Rooffee Credit: Rooffee 
  
 Would You Buy This? 
  
 Back when humorless retail buyers and brand managers at giant consumer-goods behemoths controlled what made it to market, something like this might never have happened. Thanks to Kickstarter, we now have the first coffee in the world suitable for dogs and their owners: Rooffee. It's not caffeinated, but rather a natural source of nutrients extracted from Nordic wild roots. Learn more here. 
  
 Number of the Week 
  
 18.5 percent: The growth in craft spirits sales last year to nearly 6 million cases, according to new data from the American Craft Spirits Association, which notes that crafts have reached 3.8 percent in dollar market share. 
  
 Tweet of Week 
  
 *Calls Customer Service* 
  
  
  
 Hi. I used the Amazon Key service and now my Xbox is missing. Also, they let my cat out. I'd like to cancel. — Kevin Plantz (@KevinPlantz) October 25, 2017 
  
 Moves 
  
 After six months without a full-time president of its North America business, Mondelēz International has tapped an outsider for the role. Glen Walter will join the snack maker next month as executive VP and president, North America, after most recently serving as CEO of Coca-Cola Industries China since 2014. His prior work also included serving as president and chief operating officer of the soft-drink maker's North America business. Tim Cofer had been leading the North American business on an interim basis since April, when Mondelez announced Roberto Marques was leaving the company. Cofer will now return to his chief growth officer role full time. And, as previously announced, Dirk Van de Put joins next month as CEO. 
  
 Contributing: E.J. Schultz, Jack Neff, Adrianne Pasquarelli, Jessica Wohl ||||| CLOSE Kellogg’s was called out on Twitter for having racist art on their Corn Pops box and say it will be replaced. Veuer's Sam Berman has the full story. Buzz60 
  
 AP KELLOGG CHINA F FILE USA PA 
  
 Kellogg's will be redesigning Corn Pops cereal boxes after a complaint about racially insensitive art on the packaging. 
  
 The Battle Creek, Mich.-based cereal and snack maker said on Twitter Wednesday it will replace the cover drawing of cartoon characters shaped like corn kernels populating a shopping mall. The corn pop characters are shown shopping, playing in an arcade or frolicked in a fountain. One skateboards down an escalator. 
  
 What struck Saladin Ahmed was that a single brown corn pop was working as a janitor operating a floor waxer. Ahmed, current writer of Marvel Comics' Black Bolt series and author of 2012 fantasy novel Throne of the Crescent Moon, took to Twitter on Tuesday to ask, "Why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism." 
  
 hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism. pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 
  
 He added in a subsequent post: "yes its a tiny thing, but when you see your kid staring at this over breakfast and realize millions of other kids are doing the same…" 
  
 Kellogg's responded to Ahmed on the social media network about five hours later that "Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion. We did not intend to offend – we apologize. The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon." 
  
 Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion. We did not intend to offend – we apologize. The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon. — Kellogg's (@KelloggsUS) October 24, 2017 
  
 Ahmed noted that he appreciated "the rapid response" from Kellogg's. 
  
 genuinely appreciate the rapid response — Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 
  
 In a statement to USA TODAY, spokesperson Kris Charles said Kellogg respects all people and is committed to diversity. 
  
 "We take feedback very seriously, and it was never our intention to offend anyone," he said in a statement. "We apologize sincerely." 
  
 He confirmed that the package artwork has been updated and will begin to appear on store shelves. 
  
  
  
 The Kellogg's Corn Pops incident follows some other recent marketing snafus. 
  
 Earlier this month, Dove apologized for a three-second video posted on Facebook that many found racially insensitive. The clip showed a black woman removing a brown T-shirt to reveal a white woman underneath, who then with another T-shirt removal became an Asian woman. An image showing just the black woman and white woman spread virally on social media, causing additional outrage. 
  
 The initial clip "was intended to convey that Dove Body Wash is for every woman and be a celebration of diversity," the company said in a statement. 
  
 In April, Shea Moisture apologized over an online video ad about its hair products being on sale at Target. The commercial featured white women, but the hair product company has long catered to women of color. 
  
 Follow USA TODAY reporter Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider. 
  
  
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIzcqy |||||