FILE- In this Tuesday, Dec. 9, 2014 file photo, Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani attends a Gulf Cooperation Council summit in Doha, Qatar. Bahrain says it is cutting diplomatic ties to Qatar... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE- In this Tuesday, Dec. 9, 2014 file photo, Qatar's Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani attends a Gulf Cooperation Council summit in Doha, Qatar. Bahrain says it is cutting diplomatic ties to Qatar... (Associated Press) 
  
 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Four Arab nations cut diplomatic ties to Qatar early Monday morning, further deepening a rift among Gulf Arab nations over that country's support for Islamist groups. 
  
 Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates all announced they would withdraw their diplomatic staff from Qatar, a gas-rich nation that will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Saudi Arabia also said Qatari troops would be pulled from the ongoing war in Yemen. 
  
 All the nations also said they planned to cut air and sea traffic to the peninsular country. It wasn't immediately clear how that would affect Qatar Airways, one of the region's major long-haul carriers. The airline and Qatari government officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
  
 Qatar is also home to the sprawling al-Udeid Air Base, which is home to the U.S. military's Central Command and some 10,000 American troops. It wasn't clear if the decision would affect American military operations. Central Command officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
  
 Bahrain blamed Qatar's "media incitement, support for armed terrorist activities and funding linked to Iranian groups to carry out sabotage and spreading chaos in Bahrain" for its decision. Other countries issued similar statements. 
  
 The decision comes after Qatar alleged in late May that hackers took over the site of its state-run news agency and published what it called fake comments from its ruling emir about Iran and Israel. Its Gulf Arab neighbors responded with anger, blocking Qatari-based media, including the Doha-based satellite news network Al-Jazeera. 
  
 Qatar long has faced criticism from its Arab neighbors over its support of Islamists. The chief worry among them is the Muslim Brotherhood, a Sunni Islamist political group outlawed by both Saudi Arabia and the UAE as it challenges the nations' hereditary rule. 
  
 Gulf countries led by Saudi Arabia fell out with Qatar over its backing of then-Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, a Brotherhood member. In March 2014, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain recalled their ambassadors from Qatar over the rift. Eight months later, they returned their ambassadors as Qatar forced some Brotherhood members to leave the country and quieted others. However, the 2014 crisis did not see a land and sea blockade as threatened now. 
  
 In the time since, Qatar repeatedly and strongly denied it funds extremist groups. However, it remains a key financial patron of the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip and has been the home of exiled Hamas official Khaled Mashaal since 2012. Western officials also have accused Qatar of allowing or even encouraging funding of Sunni extremists like al-Qaida's branch in Syria, once known as the Nusra Front. 
  
 The crisis also comes after U.S. President Donald Trump's recent visit to Saudi Arabia for a summit with Arab leaders. Since the meeting, unrest in the region has grown. 
  
 At that Saudi conference, Trump met with Qatar's ruling emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. 
  
 "We are friends, we've been friends now for a long time, haven't we?" Trump asked at the meeting. "Our relationship is extremely good." 
  
 ___ 
  
 Follow Jon Gambrell on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jongambrellap. His work can be found at http://apne.ws/2galNpz. ||||| Image copyright EPA Image caption Qatar's government said it believed the move was "unjustified" 
  
 A number of Arab countries including Saudi Arabia and Egypt have cut diplomatic ties with Qatar, accusing it of destabilising the region. 
  
 They say Qatar backs militant groups including so-called Islamic State (IS) and al-Qaeda, which Qatar denies. 
  
 The Saudi state news agency SPA said Riyadh had closed its borders, severing land, sea and air contact with the tiny peninsula of oil-rich Qatar. 
  
 Qatar called the decision "unjustified" and with "no basis in fact". 
  
 The unprecedented move is seen as a major split between powerful Gulf countries, who are also close US allies. 
  
 It comes amid heightened tensions between Gulf countries and their near-neighbour, Iran. The Saudi statement accused Qatar of collaborating with "Iranian-backed terrorist groups" in its restive eastern region of Qatif and in Bahrain. 
  
 What has happened? 
  
 The diplomatic withdrawal was first put into motion by Bahrain, then Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Egypt, Yemen, Libya's eastern-based government and the Maldives all followed suit. 
  
 SPA cited officials as saying the decision was taken to "protect its national security from the dangers of terrorism and extremism". 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The diplomatic crisis is likely to disrupt Qatar's food imports from Saudi Arabia 
  
 Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Bahrain have given all Qatari visitors and residents two weeks to leave their territory. The three countries have also banned their citizens from travelling to Qatar. 
  
 However, Saudi Arabia says it will still allow Qataris to take part in the annual Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca. 
  
 So far, there has been no sign of reciprocal moves by Qatar. 
  
 In the latest developments: 
  
 The UAE and Egypt have given Qatari diplomats 48 hours to leave both countries 
  
 Airlines from many of the affected countries, including EgyptAir, Etihad Airways and Emirates, said they are to cancel flights to and from the Qatari capital Doha 
  
 The Gulf allies said they had closed their airspace to Qatar Airways, which has suspended all its flights to Saudi Arabia 
  
 Bahrain's state news agency said it was cutting its ties because Qatar was "shaking the security and stability of Bahrain and meddling in its affairs" 
  
 The Saudi-led Arab coalition fighting Yemen's Houthi rebels also expelled Qatar from its alliance because of its "practices that strengthen terrorism" and its support of extremist groups. 
  
 Why this row has erupted 
  
 Food, flights and football at risk 
  
 Why has this happened? 
  
 Image copyright EPA Image caption US President Trump met Egyptian President Sisi and Saudi King Salman in Saudi Arabia two weeks ago 
  
 While the severing of ties was sudden, it has not come out of the blue, as tensions have been building for years, and particularly in recent weeks. 
  
 Two weeks ago, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the UAE blocked Qatari news sites, including Al Jazeera. Comments purportedly by Qatari Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani criticising Saudi Arabia had appeared on Qatari state media. 
  
 The government in Doha dismissed the comments as fake, attributing the report to a "shameful cybercrime". 
  
 Back in 2014, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and the UAE withdrew their ambassadors from Qatar for several months in protest over alleged interference in their affairs. 
  
 'A Qatarstrophe' - social media reacts 
  
 All you need to know about Qatar 
  
 The story behind Qatar 'hack' 
  
 More broadly, two key factors drove Monday's decision: Qatar's ties to Islamist groups, and the role of Iran, Saudi Arabia's regional rival. 
  
 While Qatar has joined the US coalition against IS, the Qatari government has repeatedly denied accusations from Iraq's Shia leaders that it provided financial support to IS. 
  
 Wealthy individuals in the country are believed to have made donations and the government has given money and weapons to hardline Islamist groups in Syria. Qatar is also accused of having links to a group formerly known as the Nusra Front, an al-Qaeda affiliate. 
  
 The SPA statement accused Qatar of backing these groups, as well as the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood - banned in Gulf countries as a terrorist organisation - and that it "promotes the message and schemes of these groups through their media constantly". 
  
 Saudi Arabia itself is a key backer of Islamist rebels, including hardline jihadist groups, in Syria. 
  
 Where key countries stand on IS 
  
 Where does IS get its support? 
  
 Qatar - Key facts 2.7m population 2m of whom are men 
  
 11,437 sq km in size (4,416 sq miles) 
  
 77 years life expectancy (men) 
  
 80 years for women Reuters 
  
 While on a visit to Riyadh two weeks ago, US President Donald Trump urged Muslim countries to take the lead in combating radicalisation, and blamed Iran for instability in the Middle East. 
  
 "It seems that the Saudis and Emiratis feel emboldened by the alignment of their regional interests - toward Iran and Islamism - with the Trump administration," Gulf analyst Kristian Ulrichsen told Reuters news agency. 
  
 "[They] have decided to deal with Qatar's alternative approach on the assumption that they will have the [Trump] administration's backing." 
  
 Is Saudi to blame for IS? 
  
 Saudi Arabia, too, has been accused of funding IS, either directly or by failing to prevent private donors from sending money to the group - allegations it denies. 
  
 In recent days, British Prime Minister Theresa May has also come under pressure from election rivals to publish a report thought to focus on the funding of UK extremist groups by Saudi Arabia. 
  
 What has been the reaction? 
  
 Qatar, which is due to host the football World Cup in 2022, was critical of the decision. The foreign ministry said the decisions would "not affect the normal lives of citizens and residents". 
  
 US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, speaking in Sydney, urged the countries to resolve their differences through dialogue. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urges Gulf states to "address differences" 
  
 Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi said there was a need for "transparent dialogue and diplomacy", adding: "No country in the region will benefit from the heightened tension." 
  
 Qatar's stock market closed down 7.27%. 
  
 One of the likely knock-on effects is on food stability: about 40% of Qatar's food is believed to come by lorry from Saudi Arabia. 
  
 The Doha News newspaper reported that people had rushed to supermarkets to stock up on food and water. 
  
 Nearly 90% of Qatar's population are migrant workers, many of whom are working on the construction boom fuelled by the successful World Cup bid. 
  
 Why this decision now? - Alan Johnston, BBC Middle East analyst 
  
 There have long been tensions not far beneath the surface. Qatar has often seemed out of step with its neighbours. 
  
 It has tended, for example, to side with Islamist forces in the Middle East - like the Muslim Brotherhood, which is reviled by the Saudis and the current Egyptian leadership. 
  
 Past efforts by the neighbours to pull the Qataris into line have had limited impact. But now Doha has suddenly come under much greater and more co-ordinated pressure. 
  
 Emboldened by President Trump's trip two weeks ago, the Saudis and the Emiratis believe that this is the moment to make clear to Qatar that its divergent views will no longer be tolerated. 
  
 And right now this small country's rulers will probably be feeling very lonely indeed. |||||