SYDNEY, Australia — An Australian lawmaker invoked a Nazi euphemism for genocide on Tuesday, calling for a “final solution to the immigration problem” during a speech in Parliament in which he proposed a national plebiscite on banning all Muslims from entering the country. 
  
 “We as a nation are entitled to insist that those who are allowed to come here predominately reflect the historic European-Christian composition of society and embrace our language, culture and values as a people,” said Senator Fraser Anning, a member of Katter’s Australian Party, a small, conservative political party. 
  
 “The final solution to the immigration problem, of course,” Mr. Anning said in his first speech since his election, “is a popular vote.” 
  
 On Wednesday, leaders from across the political spectrum condemned Mr. Anning’s remarks. Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, of Australia’s conservative Liberal Party, called them a “shocking insult” to the millions of Jews who perished in the Holocaust, and he used the moment to appeal to the country’s Muslim population. ||||| Image copyright EPA Image caption Senator Fraser Anning says he will not apologise for his speech 
  
 An Australian senator has been widely condemned for a speech that invoked the term "final solution" in a call for immigration restrictions based on race. 
  
 Fraser Anning, from the conservative Katter's Australian Party, called for migration bans on Muslims and others in his maiden Senate speech on Tuesday. 
  
 Political opponents denounced his speech as "disgraceful". Mr Anning said he did not need to apologise. 
  
 "Final solution" was a term infamously used by the Nazis during the Holocaust. 
  
 In his speech, Mr Anning said "the final solution to the immigration problem is a popular vote". 
  
 On Wednesday, lawmakers across the political divide moved to pass parliamentary motions censuring Mr Anning for his "racist hate speech", noting in particular his use of the phrase "final solution", and his "false, misleading and hurtful statements" about Muslim Australians and other immigrant groups. 
  
 Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said Mr Anning had made "a shocking insult to the memory" of those murdered in the Holocaust. 
  
 The Holocaust was the Nazis' assault on Jewish people between 1933 and 1945. It culminated in what the Nazis called the "Final Solution of the Jewish Question in Europe", in which six million Jews were murdered. 
  
 Mr Anning has denied that his words were a reference to the Holocaust, describing himself as an advocate for Jewish Australians. 
  
 On Wednesday, he said: "I don't regret anything. I am not going to apologise or regret anything that I say." 
  
 'Inflammatory' speech 
  
 The senator, a former member of Pauline Hanson's anti-Islam One Nation Party, called for a return to the White Australia Policy - which restricted non-European immigrants from 1901 until the 1960s. 
  
 Labor's Senate leader Penny Wong, who was born in Malaysia, said the White Australia Policy had been "rightly consigned to the dustbin of history". 
  
 Meanwhile, Australia's first Muslim female senator, Mehreen Faruqi, who filled a vacant seat on Wednesday, said Mr Anning had "spat in the face of millions of Australians, spewing hate and racism". 
  
 "I'm a Muslim migrant, I'm about to be a Senator and there's not a damn thing Fraser Anning can do about it," she wrote in a piece for website Junkee. 
  
 The Sydney Morning Herald newspaper reported that Mr Anning had given "the most inflammatory maiden speech to an Australian parliament" since Ms Hanson said in 1998 that Australia was "in danger of being swamped by Asians". 
  
 Mr Turnbull told parliament: "We need to stand up for what we are... the most successful multicultural society in the world, united by democratic values that do not distinguish between race, religion, colour or cultural background." 
  
 Anger over Mr Anning's speech extended beyond the parliament. Among those to speak out was Australia's first Muslim Test cricketer, Usman Khawaja. 
  
 Nearly half of all Australians were born overseas or had one parent who was born overseas, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
  
 Leader's support 
  
 Mr Anning was elected last year after the disqualification of another senator, despite receiving only 19 votes in Australia's 2016 national poll. 
  
 He quit the One Nation Party last year to join Katter's Australian Party, whose sole other parliamentary representative is leader Bob Katter. 
  
 Mr Katter said he supported Mr Anning's speech "1000%" but suggested that his colleague did not know much about the Holocaust. 
  
 "He's smart, but he hasn't read all the history books," Mr Katter told reporters. ||||| Final solution: Here's the Nazi history of the phrase used by Fraser Anning 
  
 Updated 
  
 Almost two weeks ago, Senator Fraser Anning used his first speech to Parliament to argue that all Muslims should be banned from migrating to Australia. 
  
 He said there should be a national vote to decide who can enter Australia, calling this the "final solution". 
  
 Senator Anning said he wouldn't be apologising for using that phrase — "If people want to take it of context, that is entirely up to them," he said — but his use of language most commonly associated with the Nazis has been condemned by both the Coalition and Labor. 
  
 When queried about the phrase on Q&A last night, One Nation leader Pauline Hanson said she had experienced a "please explain moment" when she heard it. 
  
 "I had no idea what it meant to tell you the truth," she told host Tony Jones. 
  
 Here's our explainer on how the term came to prominence and why it's so controversial. It was first published after Senator's Anning's maiden speech. 
  
 The first significant use of 'final solution' was in July 1941, roughly two years into World War II 
  
 Andrew Bonnell, Associate Professor in History at the University of Queensland, says that's when Hitler's lieutenant Hermann Goering wrote to another high-ranking Nazi, Heinrich Himmler's deputy Reinhard Heydrich, and commissioned him with carrying out what the Nazis called "the final solution of the Jewish question". 
  
 "That was in a sense the commencement of what we today refer to most commonly as the Holocaust," Dr Bonnell explained. 
  
 The following January, the notorious Wannsee Conference was convened by the leaders of Nazi and German state agencies. 
  
 There, they discussed how to implement the final solution and coordinate their efforts towards the mass deportation of Jews to extermination camps and killing fields. 
  
 It's estimated that 6 million Jews were killed in the Holocaust. 
  
 The Nazis used vague language to try to hide the horror of what they were doing 
  
 Dr Bonnell says the term "final solution" served an ideological function by describing the existence of Jews as a problem. 
  
 But it was also a deliberate euphemism. 
  
 "In the Nazis' own written communications, orders and so forth, they always used euphemistic language to disguise, even from themselves, the enormity of what they were doing," Dr Bonnell said. 
  
 He said another example of euphemistic Nazi language was using the phrase "special treatment" to refer to the mass murder of Jews. 
  
 And the Nazis were even more vague when speaking publicly. 
  
 "There was talk of 'removing' the Jews from Europe and 'resettling' Jews in the east," Dr Bonnell said. 
  
 Until the 1970s, the phrase 'final solution' was used by Western historians more than 'Holocaust' 
  
  
  
 Dr Bonnell says historians were usually careful to put the phrase in inverted commas due to the fact that it was Nazi terminology. 
  
 "Anyone who's got any sort of awareness of the history would simply avoid using it in relation to any group of human beings," he said. 
  
 Dr Bonnell says people in public life have a responsibility to be careful when using racially loaded terms, or language associated with anti-Semitism or fascist ideologies. 
  
 "If you think it through, what does 'final solution' mean in relation to a part of a population? What sort of social problems can be definitively put out of the world in the way that term implies?" he said. 
  
 Dvir Abramovich, chairman of the Anti-Defamation Commission and an expert on Jewish culture, called Senator Anning's speech "historical trivialisation of the worst kind imaginable". 
  
 "Mr Anning is entitled to his views, but he discredits himself and his argument by irresponsibly referencing an evil plan that led to the calculated murder of six million Jews and millions of others in the Holocaust," he said. 
  
 Topics: world-war-2, race-relations, immigration, federal-parliament, government-and-politics, germany, australia 
  
 First posted |||||