From Wired How-To Wiki 
  
 Photo by yarn dirt words/ Flickr /CC 
  
 It's probably been years since you even thought of toilet papering someone's house. But if you're looking for a timeless prank to pull this Halloween, nothing is as classy as a good TPing. 
  
 TPing someone's house is annoying but innocuous -- there's very little risk of permanent damage. And, if you're the charitable type, you can always stop by the next morning to help with the clean up. 
  
 Here's our guide to making sure your prank goes off without a hitch. 
  
 This article is part of a wiki anyone can edit. If you have general advice or throwing tips to add, log in and contribute. Concerns about legality should be kept to the Discussion page (click on the "Discussion" tab the top). 
  
  
  
  
  
 Not all toilet paper is created equal 
  
 Sorry, but there is no way to TP someone's house using the flimsy, post-consumer "green" toilet paper. When it comes to lobbing it over houses and tree branches, skip the cheap stuff and the hippie stuff and go straight for the heavy duty, double-roll toilet paper. You get better coverage, it's easier to throw, it stands up better to moisture and isn't as likely to tear every time it goes over a branch, roof or car. 
  
 Also, beware of when and where you buy your toilet paper. Shop at high-volume big box stores where a 30-pack is the default option rather than a specialty item. Split up your crew and make multiple runs to avoid scrutiny. Also, shop in the midday hours. Showing up at the register with 100 rolls of toilet paper at midnight will raise suspicion. 
  
 Prepare your ammo 
  
 Get your rolls ready to go before descending on your target. Discard the outer packaging and throw your rolls into big bags for easy access once you arrive. If you want to be really annoying, tear up a few rolls ahead of time. Put the tiny scraps at the bottom of your bag and scatter them over the lawn as a coup de grace. 
  
 Add a little color to your TP. Use a large needle to punch a few holes in the roll. Then drop several drops of a food color into a hole and in the end you will have a red, green, yellow, and blue roll. 
  
  
  
 Make sure to also unroll it a round or two, to gets past the glued down end of the roll, dont need to be mucking about trying to unroll your weapon, before you cab lob it. Chances are, you're gonna be in a hurry when you do this. 
  
 Do the deed 
  
 Once you're on the scene, work quickly. Remain absolutely silent. Use hand-signals instead of talking. For the love of all things Hollywood, don't use anyone's real name when actually at the scene -- think Mr. Pink, Mr. White, etc. 
  
 Work your way through the yard, starting at the street. Do the area nearest to the house last, lest you accidentally wake any light sleepers. 
  
 It sounds obvious, but don't park right in front of the house you plan to TP. Park around the corner or down the street and walk, and make sure you don't have to drive by the house to exit the neighborhood. Bikes are effective if you require extra stealth. 
  
 Plan an escape route ahead of time. If you do get caught, scatter and meet up at some pre-determined rendezvous. Never leave behind anyone in your crew! 
  
  
  
  
  
 Throwing tips 
  
 When it comes to throwing a roll of toilet paper, keep in mind that it's fairly fragile stuff to begin with and it can't take a lot of strain. 
  
 For maximum coverage from a single roll, start by unrolling about three arms lengths worth of paper. Although it may seem intuitive to hold that slack end tightly in one hand, don't do it! The paper will tear rather than unroll if there is much tension as it unrolls. Beginners may wish to then heave the roll with your throwing hand, tossing it up and over with a strong but steady upward swing -- a bit like you're bowling, except with a much higher release point. Let the slack end unravel as the roll sails through the night. A more advanced technique is a standard overhand throw, with the slack end of the roll trailing out above the knuckles. A maximum of backspin can be generated when throwing in this way, and much more height. Spin in the direction of unravel is critical, as tension will tear the paper. You want the roll to unravel during flight and gentle settle across any branches, or other overhangs. If you're relying on the branches, etc to grab the paper and help unravel the roll, you will fail. You can also get a buddy to stand on the opposite side of the tree and throw the roll back and forth, which will greatly speed up your operation. Make sure your buddy also knows proper throwing technique, or you might as well not use a buddy since the paper will be tearing all the time. 
  
 Ding or ditch? 
  
 There are two schools of thought on how you should end your TPing prank. The first is the rather boring, "just leave" method. The far more interesting -- albeit riskier -- method is to ring the doorbell and hide somewhere nearby so you can see the look on your victim's face when discover your handiwork. 
  
 Whichever method you go with, don't linger. 
  
  
  
 Know the law 
  
 Depending on where you live, TPing may count as vandalism. So study up, and don't do it if you'll be risking a misdemeanor. Wired does not condone breaking the law. 
  
 Concerns about legality should be kept to the Discussion page (click on the "Discussion" tab the top). 
  
 All text and artwork shared under a Creative Commons License 
  
 This page was last modified 02:36, 28 October 2010 by youareapirate . Based on work by gemohler1969 johnmc and plucharc ||||| The iPhone XR is now up for preorder and we have the details, along with a few affordable alternatives. |||||