Image caption Members of Harakat Ahrar al-Sham recognised Mohammed Fares (left) 
  
 An al-Qaeda affiliated rebel group in Syria is reported to have asked for forgiveness after beheading a fellow rebel in a case of mistaken identity. 
  
 A video recently posted online showed members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) brandishing the severed, bearded head of a man. 
  
 They said was an Iraqi Shia caught fighting on the government side. 
  
 But other rebel fighters watching the video recognised the man and said he was one of their commanders. 
  
 In a separate development, activists said a senior figure in another Islamist rebel group had been killed in an air strike near Aleppo. 
  
 Youssef al-Abbas of Liwa al-Tawhid was reportedly meeting the brigade's leader, Abdul Qader Saleh, and another senior figure, Abdul al-Aziz Salameh, at a rebel-held air base on Thursday when he was killed, according to the opposition Aleppo News Network. 
  
 It said Youssef al-Abbas, also known as Abu al-Tayyeb, was Liwa al-Tawhid's intelligence chief, but the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights described him as the group's financial officer. 
  
 Mr Saleh and Mr Salameh were wounded in the attack. ANN reported that they were taken to a hospital in Turkey and were in a good condition. 
  
 Video footage posted online by activists purportedly showed Abu al-Tayyeb's body being transported to his hometown of Mareh. 
  
 Prayers 
  
 The video of the beheading shows two ISIS fighters in Aleppo province - one holding a knife - brandish a severed, bearded head, denouncing their victim as an Iraqi volunteer for President Bashar al-Assad's forces. 
  
 They decry his immorality, saying he is a heathen - one of those who have threatened rape of men as much as women. 
  
 BBC Arab affairs analyst Sebastian Usher says horrifying videos like this stream out of Syria every day from the rebel and government side - each with the aim of sowing terror. 
  
 What makes this one stand out, he adds, is that other rebels watching the video recognised the beheaded man. 
  
 Members of the hardline Islamist rebel group, Harakat Ahrar al-Sham, said he was not a government fighter at all, but one of their own. They said he was a commander called Mohammed Fares Maroush. 
  
 He is believed to have been wounded in the recent battle for Base 80, south of Aleppo, with government forces and was being taken for medical treatment by rebel fighters. 
  
 But our correspondent says he seems to have thought he had been captured by government militiamen from the much feared shabiha. The militia is dominated by Alawites, members of the president's heterodox Shia sect. 
  
 Mr Fares is reported to have offered prayers that would have made him seem a Shia rather than a Sunni - and therefore on their side. 
  
 This was heard by ISIS fighters, and in the growing atmosphere of sectarian hatred, he was then subjected to his savage fate, our correspondent adds. 
  
 The Daily Telegraph quoted ISIS spokesman Omar al-Qahtani as conceding the error. 
  
 According to the newspaper, he alluded to a saying by the Prophet Muhammad that Allah forgives those who kill a believer by mistake. ||||| Militant Islamist rebels in Syria linked to al-Qaeda have asked for "understanding and forgiveness" for cutting off and putting on display the wrong man's head. 
  
 In a public appearance filmed and posted online, members of Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham, one brandishing a knife, held up a bearded head before a crowd in Aleppo. They triumphantly described the execution of what they said was a member of an Iraqi Shia militia fighting for President Bashar al-Assad. 
  
 But the head was recognised from the video as originally belonging to a member of Ahrar al-Sham, a Sunni Islamist rebel group that often fights alongside ISIS though it does not share its al-Qaeda ideology. 
  
 After inquiries, an ISIS spokesman admitted he was Mohammed Fares, an Ahrar commander reported missing some days ago. This could not be independently confirmed, but in an earlier video of a speech by Mr Fares he bears a close resemblance to the severed head in the later video. 
  
 The Syrian Observatory of Human Rights, which monitors deaths in the Syrian conflict, and several activists on social media said that ISIS fighters misunderstood comments Mr Fares made referring to the Imams Ali and Hussein, the founding fathers of Shiism. 
  
 An ISIS spokesman, Omar al-Qahtani, confirmed that Mr Fares had been injured and, thinking he had been captured by members of a Shia militia against which he was fighting, asked them to kill him in terms misunderstood by the ISIS members in fact taking him to hospital. 
  
 It is thought he was wounded in the battle for Base 80, a military zone being fought over near Aleppo. 
  
 In explaining the error Mr al-Qahtani made reference to a story in which Mohammed said Allah would forgive a man who killed a believer in error. 
  
 The mistake, of a sort commonly cited as an argument against the death penalty around the world, is indicative of the chaos within rebel ranks, particularly since the rise of ISIS over the summer. Several other Islamist groups have formed alliances without its participation, but it continues to exercise control over large areas of northern Syria. 
  
 Its ferocity has given rise to an exodus of moderate and secular activists, and brought to an end an uneasy truce between the Free Syrian Army and Kurdish militias, the most prominent of which has in the last month taken on ISIS and driven them out of a number of towns in the north-east. 
  
 Meanwhile, Mr Assad's forces have used the internal rifts in their enemies' ranks to make progress on a drive south-east of Aleppo. This week, a group of Islamist rebels put out an appeal for a mass mobilisation against the advance, while there are repeated rumours that major Islamist militias which do not support al-Qaeda are about to declare a common front. 
  
 Mr Qahtani said the incident would be investigated by the appropriate judicial authorities. |||||