"We are deeply concerned about the impact it is having on our employees," letter says. 
  
 Buy Photo Angie's List CEO Bill Oesterle is among CEOs calling for modifying Indiana’s ‘religious freedom’ legislation, March 2015. (Photo: Charlie Nye/The Star)Buy Photo 
  
 A who's who of top Indiana business executives called on Gov. Mike Pence and legislative leaders to reform the newly passed Religious Freedom Restoration Act so it can't be used to "justify discrimination based upon sexual orientation or gender identity." 
  
 The one-page letter was released Monday afternoon after being hand-delivered to Pence, House Speaker Brian Bosma and Senate President David Long. 
  
 The nine CEOs signing the letter head some of the state's largest employers, including Eli Lilly and Co., Anthem and Indiana University Health. They are part of a coalition of businesses that has lobbied against the controversial RFRA legislation, marking one of the most active and heated political lobbying campaigns that Indiana businesses have ever undertaken on a social issue. 
  
 The letter said the nine companies are "deeply concerned about the impact (RFRA) is having on our employees and on the reputation of our state." 
  
 It calls on the governor and legislature to "make it clear that Indiana is the welcoming state we all believe it to be. As leaders in the Indiana business community, we call on you to take immediate action to ensure that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act will not sanction or encourage discrimination against any residents or visitors to our state by anyone." 
  
 The business leaders want Pence and the legislature to immediately enact new legislation to clarify that the RFRA can't be used to discriminate against anyone for their sexual orientation or gender identify. 
  
 Jon Mills, spokesman for Cummins Inc., whose CEO Tom Linebarger signed the letter, said changing the RFRA legislation likely will involve introducing a new amendment in the current session of the legislature or stripping part of an existing bill to insert language that would modify the RFRA. 
  
 Pence said over the weekend he is open to "clarifying" the new law. 
  
 Other executives signing the letter were Bill Oesterle, CEO of Angie's List; Joseph Swedish, CEO of Anthem; Jeff Smulyan, CEO of Emmis Communications; Dan Evans, CEO of Indiana University Health; Jack Phillips, CEO of Roche Diagnostics; John Lechleiter, CEO of Eli Lilly and Co.; and Tim Hassinger, CEO of Dow AgroSciences. 
  
 The uproar over the Indiana RFRA, which Pence signed into law last week, has been stoked in part by a business community that has become less abashed in recent years about active lobbying on social issues, such as gay rights. 
  
 Where large and small corporations once steered clear of such social controversies, fearing it would alienate customers, today they're more likely to engage. 
  
 That major companies found the door slammed in their collective face in opposing RFRA — at least so far — just points up that the traditional alliance in Indiana between leading corporations in the state and the Republicans who run the legislature and governor's office isn't as tight as some might think. Lobbyists for social conservatives also have considerable influence. 
  
 In enacting RFRA, the legislature and Pence untypically defied the wishes of Indiana's largest corporations, including Lilly, Cummins, Cook Group and Anthem. 
  
 Cummins and other companies testified against RFRA legislation at public hearings. Other firms weighed in with letters or by button-holing legislators from their home districts. 
  
 It didn't seem to help the anti-RFRA cause even when two companies with influential Republicans at their helm came out against RFRA. They were Angie's List, whose CEO Oesterle managed Republican Mitch Daniels' 2004 gubernatorial campaign, and Kittle's Furniture, whose chairman, Jim Kittle Jr., was chairman of the Indiana Republican Party from 2002 to 2006. 
  
 Kittle's has prominently placed the blue "This Business Serves Everyone" anti-RFRA decal on its Facebook page. 
  
 Oesterle was so incensed with the legislation that he canceled his company's proposed plan to use $18 million in state and city aid to expand its headquarters on the Near Eastside. 
  
 In his comments on RFRA, Oesterle suggested that he and other business leaders were surprised their opinions weren't taken more seriously by Republicans in the legislature. 
  
 "In retrospect I wish I had been more public" in opposing RFRA, he said. "I was stunned how quickly that came together, the rapid-fire signing of that bill." 
  
 Oesterle said Monday he'd be willing to resume talks with the state about his company's $40 million expansion if the legislature took decisive action to modify RFRA, "not some Band-Aid put over to attempt to mask this." 
  
 Homegrown corporate opposition to RFRA has spread to out-of-state companies, with some essentially putting private sanctions in place against Indiana as a way to show their displeasure. 
  
 The CEO of San Francisco-based Salesforce.com, which owns locally based ExactTarget, declared in Twitter posts that Salesforce will stop holding meetings in Indiana as a protest over the passage of RIFRA. 
  
 The RFRA debate shows not just how corporations are taking a more active role in social issues, but that they expect to be heard, said Hoosier native Melissa D. Dodd, an assistant professor of advertising-public relations at the University of Central Florida. 
  
 "The big take-away is that, when you have a huge company like Angie's List, it really shows the impact of these companies and how they are starting to own social-political issues and make them core to who the company is," Dodd said. 
  
 Dodd calls it "corporate social advocacy" and said it emerged strongly in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court's 2010 ruling in the Citizens United case. That ruling essentially prohibited government limits on political contributions from corporations, labor unions and other associations. 
  
 "When you take a stand on a controversial social-political issue, you can potentially isolate stakeholders while at the same time attracting activist groups. It's strange to think that companies now are really engaging in this dialog," she said. 
  
 Perhaps what's driving it, Dodd said, is research showing 56 percent of Americans want companies to not only get engaged in controversial issues but take a stand. 
  
 "If they're not talking about it then they're not part of the conversation, and today, more than ever...if you're not part of the conversation then you sort of become obsolete." 
  
 Call Star reporter Jeff Swiatek at (317)444-6483. Follow him on Twitter: @JeffSwiatek. 
  
 Text of RFRA letter from Indiana CEOs: 
  
 Regardless of the original intention of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, we are deeply concerned about the impact it is having on our employees and on the reputation of our state. All of our companies seek to promote fair, diverse and inclusive workplaces. Our employees must not feel unwelcome in the place where they work and live. 
  
 As we seek to attract and retain great talent from Indiana and around the world, it is critical that we make it clear that Indiana is the welcoming state we all believe it to be. As leaders in the Indiana business community, we call on you to take immediate action to ensure that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act will not sanction or encourage discrimination against any residents or visitors to our state by anyone. 
  
 By immediately enacting new legislation that makes it clear that neither the Religious Freedom Restoration Act nor any other Indiana law can be used to justify discrimination based upon sexual orientation or gender identity, our state's elected leaders can provide the reassurance to the people of our state, our nation and the world that is needed at this critical moment. 
  
 Sincerely, William S. Oesterle Chief Executive Officer Angie's List, Inc. Jeffrey H. Smulyan Chairman, President and CEO Emmis Communications Corporation Joseph R. Swedish President and CEO Anthem, Inc. Daniel F. Evans President and Chief Executive Officer Indiana University Health Tom Linebarger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cummins Inc. Jack Phillips President and CEO Roche Diagnostics Corporation Tim Hassinger President and CEO Dow AgroSciences Scott McCorkle CEO Salesforce Marketing Cloud John C. Lechleiter Chairman, President, and CEO Eli Lilly and Company 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1bKE2vg ||||| WASHINGTON -- Connecticut Gov. Dan Malloy (D) will sign an executive order on Monday barring state-funded travel to Indiana because of the state's new law that could allow businesses to turn away gay and lesbian customers for religious reasons. 
  
 Malloy announced his plans on Twitter. 
  
 Because of Indiana's new law, later today I will sign an Executive Order regarding state-funded travel. -DM -- Governor Dan Malloy (@GovMalloyOffice) March 30, 2015 
  
 When new laws turn back the clock on progress, we can't sit idly by. We are sending a message that discrimination won't be tolerated. -DM -- Governor Dan Malloy (@GovMalloyOffice) March 30, 2015 
  
 Malloy's move would make Connecticut the first state to boycott Indiana over its Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which Gov. Mike Pence (R) quietly signed into law last week. The law allows businesses in the state to cite religious beliefs as a legal defense. Opponents fear it offers legal protection for businesses to refuse service to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. 
  
 A Pence spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
  
 Two cities, San Francisco and Seattle, have imposed similar bans in response to the law. Businesses have also retaliated. Angie's List is pulling a campus expansion project in Indianapolis, and the CEO of Salesforce, a $4 billion software corporation, announced plans to "dramatically reduce our investment" in the state because of the law. 
  
 Twenty states have RFRA laws, but Indiana's law is substantially different. While other state RFRAs apply to disputes between a person and a government, Indiana's law goes further and applies to disputes between private citizens. That means, for example, a business owner could use the law to justify discrimination against customers who might otherwise be protected under law. 
  
 Indiana's law also differs from the federal RFRA, which President Bill Clinton signed into law in 1993, for the same reason. 
  
 Last month, 30 law professors with expertise in religious freedom explained why the Indiana law could lead to "confusion and conflict." 
  
 The Indiana law could result in "employers, landlords, small business owners, or corporations, taking the law into their own hands and acting in ways that violate generally applicable laws on the grounds that they have a religious justification for doing so," reads their letter. "Members of the public will then be asked to bear the cost of their employer's, their landlord's, their local shopkeeper's, or a police officer's private religious beliefs." 
  
 That's in sharp contrast to states like Connecticut, which has an RFRA but one that pertains only to religious institutions, not private establishments. And unlike some other states, Connecticut also doesn't permit discrimination based on sexual orientation in any private establishment or institution. 
  
 UPDATE: Malloy signed the executive order Monday afternoon. 
  
 Before signing the order, he called the Indiana law "disturbing and outright discriminatory," and said the National Collegiate Athletic Association should relocate its Final Four tournament from Indiana to another state. Those games are set to begin later this week. 
  
 "I think that would be a wise choice for them to do if that's possible," said Malloy. "I'll leave it up to them to make those decisions." 
  
 The NCAA president Mark Emmert has said he is "surprised and disappointed" by Indiana's law, and that he is waiting for some kind of clarification to the law, or an outright repeal, before deciding whether to keep holding sporting events in the state. 
  
 Malloy said his executive order allows for any of the state's current contractual obligations with Indiana to play out, but said he doesn't plan to enter into any new ones. 
  
 "Somebody's got to stand up to this kind of bigotry and I'm prepared to do it," he said. 
  
 This post has been updated with more information on state and federal RFRA laws. ||||| NCAA president Mark Emmert said Monday that the organization is "surprised and disappointed" about a new Indiana law that could allow businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians, adding that the NCAA is keeping a close eye on possible changes -- if not a total repeal -- before it is scheduled to go into effect in July. 
  
 Editor's Picks Lots of talk, little action against discriminatory law LZ Granderson writes that while the sports world is full of strong statements denouncing Indiana Gov. Mike Pence's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, it has taken little action against the law. 
  
 "I'm anxiously awaiting whatever clarification that the legislature can bring forward to this bill so we can really know what it means and what it doesn't mean," Emmert told ESPN's Andy Katz on Monday in his first comments on the new legislation. "As it becomes better understood, we're going to have to sit down and make judgments about whether or not it changes the environment for us doing our work and for us holding events." 
  
 The law, signed by Gov. Mike Pence on Thursday, would prohibit state and local laws that "substantially burden" the ability of people -- including businesses and associations -- to follow their religious beliefs. 
  
 Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay also shared his thoughts on the law Monday with a tweet in which he trumpeted the inclusiveness and tolerance of his franchise. 
  
 The Colts have always embraced inclusiveness, tolerance, and a diverse fan base. We welcome ALL fans to Colts Nation. ONE FAMILY! — Jim Irsay (@JimIrsay) March 30, 2015 
  
 The NFL also issued a statement Monday on Indiana's new law: 
  
 "Our policies emphasize tolerance and inclusiveness, and prohibit discrimination based on age, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, or any other improper standard," the statement read. "We are continuing to analyze the implications of the law." 
  
 Indiana's Republican legislative leaders said Monday they are working on adding language to the law to make it clear that it doesn't allow discrimination against gays and lesbians, while Democrats countered that a full repeal is the only way to stem the widespread criticism. 
  
 "The law has a lot of uncertainty and obviously lacks clarity, but anything that could potentially allow for discrimination and works in a way that is inconsistent with our values for inclusion is something that we're very, very concerned about," Emmert told ESPN. 
  
 "... It does clearly need to be addressed, whether it's a repeal or whether it's some language change that makes it self-evident that there's not discriminatory practices that can be condoned under this model. It's going to be a decision they have to make, but they have to deal with it." 
  
 Businesses and organizations across the country have canceled future travel to Indiana, tabled expansion plans or criticized the legislation. Opponents have taken to social media with the hashtag #boycottindiana. 
  
 NCAA president Mark Emmert said he was "surprised and disappointed" at how quickly an Indiana law that could allow businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians was pushed through the legislature. AP Photo/David J. Phillip 
  
 Connecticut's governor and UConn's athletic director called on the NCAA to consider moving next year's Women's Final Four out of Indianapolis unless changes are made to the law. 
  
 Gov. Dannel P. Malloy signed an executive order banning state spending on travel to Indiana and says the NCAA would be wise to move the tournament. 
  
 "We have gay men and women who play NCAA sports, and to hold a tournament in a state that has passed, and really quite frankly has flaunted, laws that would lead to discrimination against those athletes, is not a wise place to have a tournament," Malloy said. 
  
 UConn athletic director Warde Manuel told The Associated Press he finds the law unacceptable. He said he hopes Indiana rectifies the situation before UConn or any other institution considers a boycott of the 2016 Final Four. 
  
 "If it doesn't change, then I would encourage the NCAA to look to move the venue so that we wouldn't get into a situation where any institution would have to consider that kind of choice," he said. 
  
 Emmert told ESPN that the NCAA was "surprised and disappointed" that the bill moved so quickly through the state legislature and was signed by Pence. 
  
 The LGBT Sports Coalition has called for the NCAA, the Big Ten, the NFL, USA Diving and USA Gymnastics to pull scheduled events from Indianapolis over the next 16 months. |||||