Julia Bartoli & Chantal Abergel; Information Génomique et Structurale, CNRS-AMU 
  
 In what seems like a plot straight out of a low-budget science-fiction film, scientists have revived a giant virus that was buried in Siberian ice for 30,000 years — and it is still infectious. Its targets, fortunately, are amoebae, but the researchers suggest that as Earth's ice melts, this could trigger the return of other ancient viruses, with potential risks for human health. 
  
 “This guy is 150 times less compacted than any bacteriophage. We don’t understand anything anymore!” 
  
 The newly thawed virus is the biggest one ever found. At 1.5 micrometres long, it is comparable in size to a small bacterium. Evolutionary biologists Jean-Michel Claverie and Chantal Abergel, the husband-and-wife team at Aix-Marseille University in France who led the work, named it Pithovirus sibericum, inspired by the Greek word 'pithos' for the large container used by the ancient Greeks to store wine and food. “We’re French, so we had to put wine in the story,” says Claverie. The results are published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences1. 
  
 Claverie and Abergel have helped to discover other so-called giant viruses — including the first, called Mimivirus, in 20032, and two others, known as Pandoraviruses, last year3 (see 'Giant viruses open Pandora's box'). “Once again, this group has opened our eyes to the enormous diversity that exists in giant viruses,” says Curtis Suttle, a virologist at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada, who was not involved in the work. 
  
 Two years ago, Claverie and Abergel's team learned that scientists in Russia had resurrected an ancient plant from fruits buried in 30,000-year-old Siberian permafrost4. “If it was possible to revive a plant, I wondered if it was possible to revive a virus,” says Claverie. Using permafrost samples provided by the Russian team, they fished for giant viruses by using amoebae — the typical targets of these pathogens — as bait. The amoebae started dying, and the team found giant-virus particles inside them. 
  
 Under a microscope, Pithovirus appears as a thick-walled oval with an opening at one end, much like the Pandoraviruses. But despite their similar shapes, Abergel notes that “they are totally different viruses”. 
  
 Julia Bartoli & Chantal Abergel; Information Génomique et Structurale, CNRS-AMU 
  
 Surprising properties 
  
 Pithovirus has a ‘cork’ with a honeycomb structure capping its opening (see electron-microscope image). It copies itself by building replication ‘factories’ in its host’s cytoplasm, rather than by taking over the nucleus, as most viruses do. Only one-third of its proteins bear any similarity to those of other viruses. And, to the team’s surprise, its genome is much smaller than those of the Pandoraviruses, despite its larger size. 
  
 “That huge particle is basically empty,” says Claverie. “We thought it was a property of viruses that they pack DNA extremely tightly into the smallest particle possible, but this guy is 150 times less compacted than any bacteriophage [viruses that infect bacteria]. We don’t understand anything anymore!” 
  
 Although giant viruses almost always target amoebae, Christelle Desnues, a virologist at the French National Centre for Scientific Research in Marseilles, last year discovered5 signs that another giant virus, Marseillevirus, had infected an 11-month-old boy. He had been hospitalized with inflamed lymph nodes, and Desnues's team discovered traces of Marseillevirus DNA in his blood, and the virus itself in the a node. “It is clear that giant viruses cannot be seen as stand-alone freaks of nature,” she says. “They constitute an integral part of the virosphere with implications in diversity, evolution and even human health.” 
  
 Claverie and Abergel are concerned that rising global temperatures, along with mining and drilling operations in the Arctic, could thaw out many more ancient viruses that are still infectious and that could conceivably pose a threat to human health. 
  
 But Suttle points out that people already inhale thousands of viruses every day, and swallow billions whenever they swim in the sea. The idea that melting ice would release harmful viruses, and that those viruses would circulate extensively enough to affect human health, “stretches scientific rationality to the breaking point”, he says. “I would be much more concerned about the hundreds of millions of people who will be displaced by rising sea levels.” ||||| Image copyright CNRS-AMU Image caption The virus was inactive for more than 30,000 years until it was revived in a laboratory in France 
  
 An ancient virus has "come back to life" after lying dormant for at least 30,000 years, scientists say. 
  
 It was found frozen in a deep layer of the Siberian permafrost, but after it thawed it became infectious once again. 
  
 The French scientists say the contagion poses no danger to humans or animals, but other viruses could be unleashed as the ground becomes exposed. 
  
 The study is published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). 
  
 Professor Jean-Michel Claverie, from the National Centre of Scientific Research (CNRS) at the University of Aix-Marseille in France, said: "This is the first time we've seen a virus that's still infectious after this length of time." 
  
 Biggest virus 
  
 The ancient pathogen was discovered buried 30m (100ft) down in the frozen ground. 
  
 Called Pithovirus sibericum, it belongs to a class of giant viruses that were discovered 10 years ago. 
  
 Image copyright CNRS-AMU Image caption The virus infects amoebas but does not attack human or animal cells 
  
 These are all so large that, unlike other viruses, they can be seen under a microscope. And this one, measuring 1.5 micrometres in length, is the biggest that has ever been found. 
  
 The last time it infected anything was more than 30,000 years ago, but in the laboratory it has sprung to life once again. 
  
 Tests show that it attacks amoebas, which are single-celled organisms, but does not infect humans or other animals. 
  
 Co-author Dr Chantal Abergel, also from the CNRS, said: "It comes into the cell, multiplies and finally kills the cell. It is able to kill the amoeba - but it won't infect a human cell." 
  
 However, the researchers believe that other more deadly pathogens could be locked in Siberia's permafrost. 
  
 "We are addressing this issue by sequencing the DNA that is present in those layers," said Dr Abergel. 
  
 "This would be the best way to work out what is dangerous in there." 
  
 'Recipe for disaster' 
  
 The researchers say this region is under threat. Since the 1970s, the permafrost has retreated and reduced in thickness, and climate change projections suggest it will decrease further. 
  
 It has also become more accessible, and is being eyed for its natural resources. 
  
 Prof Claverie warns that exposing the deep layers could expose new viral threats. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Professor Jean-Michel Claverie: Large viruses suggest that the Earth may have "multiple" origins of life 
  
 He said: "It is a recipe for disaster. If you start having industrial explorations, people will start to move around the deep permafrost layers. Through mining and drilling, those old layers will be penetrated and this is where the danger is coming from." 
  
 He told BBC News that ancient strains of the smallpox virus, which was declared eradicated 30 years ago, could pose a risk. 
  
 "If it is true that these viruses survive in the same way those amoeba viruses survive, then smallpox is not eradicated from the planet - only the surface," he said. 
  
 "By going deeper we may reactivate the possibility that smallpox could become again a disease of humans in modern times." 
  
 Finding a virus still capable of infecting its host after such a long time is still pretty astounding Prof Jonathan Ball, University of Nottingham 
  
 However, it is not yet clear whether all viruses could become active again after being frozen for thousands or even millions of years. 
  
 "That's the six million dollar question," said Professor Jonathan Ball, a virologist from the University of Nottingham, who was commenting on the research. 
  
 "Finding a virus still capable of infecting its host after such a long time is still pretty astounding - but just how long other viruses could remain viable in permafrost is anyone's guess. It will depend a lot on the actual virus. I doubt they are all as robust as this one." 
  
 He added: "We freeze viruses in the laboratory to preserve them for the future. If they have a lipid envelope - like flu or HIV, for example - then they are a bit more fragile, but the viruses with an external protein shell - like foot and mouth and common cold viruses - survive better. 
  
 "But it's the freezing-thawing that poses the problems, because as the ice forms then melts there's a physical damaging effect. If they do survive this, then they need to find a host to infect and they need to find them pretty fast." 
  
 Follow Rebecca on Twitter ||||| Scientists discover virus thawed from permafrost after 30,000 years. It's now reproducing but poses no threat to people. 
  
 The black oval is a cross-section of a giant virus, first discovered in a sample of 30,000-year-old permafrost from Russia, infecting an amoeba. (Photo: Julia Bartoli and Chantal Abergel/IGS and CNRS-AMU) Story Highlights Largest virus on Earth poses no danger to humans 
  
 Virus discovered in long-frozen soil in the tundra of Siberia 
  
 While this virus isn't harmful to people, permafrost may harbor other viruses that are 
  
 The frozen soil deep below the Siberian tundra has yielded an astonishing discovery: giant viruses that are still infectious though they've spent the last 30,000 years or so on ice. 
  
 The newfound virus, although invisible to the naked eye, is the biggest on Earth -- larger even than many bacteria and some regular cells -- and may be a new branch of a giant-virus family tree. 
  
 It poses no danger to people, infecting only one-celled creatures called amoebas. But the scientists who identified the new super-virus say their work shows that humans who disturb permafrost, or frozen soil, may encounter viruses that aren't as benign. It's a growing possibility as climate change warms the far north. 
  
 The permafrost may harbor viruses harmful to humans or animals, and "at the moment, there's no reason to believe they (aren't) also resistant for a long time under the same conditions," says study author Jean-Michel Claverie of Aix-Marseille University in France. Now that the loss of sea ice has made mineral-rich north Siberia more accessible, "there will be people where there were no people before, and those people are going to manipulate and disturb those (soil) layers that have not been disturbed for a million years." 
  
 The unlikely source of the new microbe is a layer of permafrost 100 feet beneath the treeless tundra in northeastern Russia. The soil has been frozen for thousands of years, shielded from the oxygen and light that degrade living material. 
  
 Hoping the permafrost might have made a safe haven for prehistoric viruses, the researchers added some excavated material to colonies of amoebas, tiny, blobby organisms that live in water and soil. Some of the amoebas burst and died, suggesting they'd been infected by a virus. That virus was a fat, elongated giant, according to the new study. The scientists christened it Pithovirus, from the Greek word "pithos," a large ceramic storage barrel used in ancient times, they say in this week's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
  
 Pithovirus is bigger than any other giant virus and 10 to 20 times larger than ordinary viruses but still much smaller than a grain of sand. 
  
 As for how giant viruses evolved, Claverie says, "frankly, at the moment, your guess is as good as ours." 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1c1VwlJ |||||