Image copyright Leon Neal/Getty Images Image caption President Trump visited his Turnberry golf resort amid high security at the weekend 
  
 A US Secret Service agent who suffered a stroke during President Trump's visit to Scotland has died. 
  
 The man was part of the presidential protection team when he fell ill during Mr Trump's stay at the Turnberry golf resort in Ayrshire on Sunday. 
  
 US officials said he died in hospital surrounded by his family on Tuesday. 
  
 The Secret Service thanked medical personnel and police in Scotland as well as White House medics for the "exceptional care" he received. 
  
 In a statement, it described the agent as a "dedicated professional of the highest order" who had served in the US Secret Service for 19 years. ||||| Add this Tweet to your website by copying the code below. Tuilleadh eolais 
  
 Add this video to your website by copying the code below. Tuilleadh eolais 
  
 Níorbh fhéidir an freastalaí a theagmháil. An dtriailfidh tú arís é? Cuirtear an bun-Tweet san áireamh Bíodh meáin mar chuid de 
  
 Trí ábhar Twitter a leabú i do láithreán gréasáin nó aip, tá tú ag aontú le Comhaontú an Fhorbróra agus Polasaí an Fhorbróra. 
  
 Réamhamharc ||||| Washington (CNN) A United States Secret Service agent died after suffering a stroke while supporting President Donald Trump's trip to Scotland over the weekend, the Secret Service said Wednesday. 
  
 The 42-year-old agent, who is now being identified as Special Agent Noel E. Remagen, was working on protection for national security adviser John Bolton on the midnight shift when he was found to be unresponsive by colleagues at Trump's Turnberry resort Saturday night. 
  
 Remagen was quickly attended to by a White House doctor and Secret Service colleagues before being rushed to Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow, where he passed away on Sunday, a law enforcement source told CNN. 
  
 Remagen is survived by a wife and two small children, and was the son of a retired Secret Service employee. 
  
 The President and first lady Melania Trump departed for Joint Base Andrews Wednesday afternoon to see Remagen's family, the White House said. 
  
 Read More ||||| GoFundMe has verified that the funds raised will go directly to the intended recipient. 
  
 What does verified mean? |||||