Mr. Obama grew more reticent, in Mr. Panetta’s view, because his legitimacy has been challenged more than any of his predecessors by accusations like the unsubstantiated claim that he was not born in the United States. “Those challenges have encouraged the president’s caution and defensiveness, which in turn has emboldened further challenges,” Mr. Panetta wrote. 
  
 The book, and the media blitz that accompanies it, becomes the latest headache for a White House that, like other second-term administrations, finds itself fending off friendly fire from veterans of the first. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. pushed back last week when asked about Mr. Panetta’s book during an appearance at Harvard. 
  
 “I’m finding that former administration officials, as soon as they leave, write books, which I think is inappropriate,” Mr. Biden said. When the audience laughed, he interjected: “No, I’m serious. I do think it’s inappropriate. At least give the guy a chance to get out of office.” 
  
 Mr. Panetta, unsurprisingly, disagreed. “I don’t think you put history on hold,” he said in the interview. “I’m one who believes you present history as you see it to the American people and they’re wise enough to make judgments about what’s right and wrong.” 
  
 Mr. Panetta sent a copy to the White House, although only after it was finished. He also went through separate clearance processes with the C.I.A. and Defense Department over potentially classified information. The C.I.A. engaged in a vigorous tug of war over what would be in the book, and Mr. Panetta said he took out some material, but nothing that changed the narrative. 
  
 The book traces Mr. Panetta’s life growing up the son of Italian immigrants in Northern California to his early days in politics as a moderate Republican in President Richard M. Nixon’s administration who was fired for pressing the desegregation of Southern schools. Mr. Panetta switched parties and was elected to Congress before becoming President Bill Clinton’s budget director and, later, White House chief of staff. 
  
 Surprised to be invited back to Washington by Mr. Obama, Mr. Panetta described masterminding the raid that killed Osama bin Laden and approving the drone strike that killed an American jihadist, Anwar al-Awlaki. He said he felt hamstrung by a White House that centralized decision-making and tried to control his contacts with lawmakers and journalists. “In fact, several times when I reached out to Congress or the press without prior White House approval,” he wrote, “I was chastised for it.” ||||| Aspiring Republican presidential candidate Bobby Jindal, governor of Louisiana, scheduled a big Washington speech for Monday to condemn President Obama’s defense policy. But an unexpected competitor beat him to the punch. 
  
 Leon Panetta, in an interview with USA Today’s Susan Page published just before Jindal’s speech, criticized Obama in harsh terms that would have been dismissed as partisan sniping — if Panetta weren’t a Democrat who had served as Obama’s CIA director and secretary of defense. 
  
 Panetta criticized his former boss for having “lost his way” — allowing the power vacuum in Iraq that created the Islamic State, rejecting Panetta’s and Hillary Clinton’s advice to arm the Syrian rebels and failing to enforce his own “red line” barring Syria’s use of chemical weapons. 
  
 The interview was timed with this week’s launch of Panetta’s book, in which he wrote that Obama “avoids the battle, complains, and misses opportunities.” Panetta also wrote of Obama’s “frustrating reticence to engage his opponents and rally support for his cause” and his tendency to rely “on the logic of a law professor rather than the passion of a leader.” 
  
 So when Jindal arrived at the conservative American Enterprise Institute on Monday morning, all he really had to do to blame Obama for the world’s woes was to quote Panetta. 
  
 “How did we get to this point?” Jindal asked. “Just ask the people who can be honest about what happened. Ask former defense secretary Leon Panetta.” 
  
 In a news conference following the speech, I asked Jindal to elaborate. Panetta “is now the latest in a series of officials who have served in this administration coming out and saying from the inside they saw some of the dangerous mistakes this president has made,” the governor said. “Secretary Panetta and others are echoing what is obvious from the outside, but it’s more powerful when it’s coming from people on the inside.” 
  
 George W. Bush got criticism from former advisers (Paul O’Neill, John DiIulio), as did Bill Clinton (George Stephanopoulos, Dick Morris), but this level of disloyalty is stunning, even though it is softened with praise for Obama’s intellect. 
  
 At the start of the year, Robert Gates, Obama’s first defense secretary, wrote a memoir full of criticism of Obama’s handling of Afghanistan, saying Obama made military decisions based on political considerations. Former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, who also published a book this year, criticized Obama for rejecting her advice on Syria and mocked the “Don’t do stupid stuff” phrase used by administration officials to describe Obama’s doctrine. 
  
 The lack of message discipline is puzzling, because Obama rewards and promotes loyalists. But he’s a cerebral leader, and he may lack the personal attachments that make aides want to charge the hill for him. Also, as MSNBC reporter Alex Seitz-Wald tweeted in response to a question I posed, Panetta, Gates and Clinton didn’t owe their careers to Obama. Clinton was a rival, Gates was a Bush holdover, and Panetta is a Democratic eminence grise. Loyalty didn’t trump book sales — or Clinton’s need to distance herself from Obama before a presidential run. 
  
 But there’s also David Axelrod, long Obama’s loyal strategist, saying on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday that Obama made “a mistake” in saying his economic policies will be on the ballot next month. In quibbling with his old boss, Axelrod followed a path well worn by former Obama press secretary Robert Gibbs, who once accused his old boss of “exceedingly passive” action. 
  
 Obama’s most loyal mouthpiece at the moment may be Vice President Biden, who in a speech at Harvard last week condemned as “inappropriate” the books by former administration officials. But having Biden speak for you is of dubious value: The vice president’s criticism of Panetta was overshadowed by loose remarks in that same speech that led Biden to apologize to the governments of Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. 
  
 Whatever causes Obama’s difficulty inspiring loyalty, his failure is delighting conservatives and Republicans. 
  
 After Jindal’s speech referencing Panetta, Dov Zakheim, a former Bush Pentagon official, rose during the question period to add that “Panetta, who’s really a straight shooter, complains that when he argued against the sequester, he had nobody to back him up.” Zakheim also noted that Obama “completely jettisoned” an earlier Pentagon budget proposed by Gates — a topic discussed in the Gates memoir. 
  
 Jindal embraced Panetta as if he had just endorsed the Louisianan’s presidential campaign. “I think it took a lot of courage to tell that truth,” he said. “Secretary Panetta was, in coming out publicly criticizing the president, saying he still has two years to reverse the dangers and the dangerous deterioration that’s happened this past six years.” 
  
 All Obama needs to do, Jindal said, is listen to “folks like me, folks like Leon Panetta.” 
  
 Twitter: @Milbank 
  
 Read more from Dana Milbank’s archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook. ||||| CLOSE Former CIA director Leon Panetta discusses the threat posed by Islamic State and offers a critical review of Obama's performance as president. He speaks with USA TODAY's Susan Page in this edition of Capital Download. 
  
 Defense Secretary Leon Panetta speaks about his memoir. (Photo: Michael Howard Kofsky for USA TODAY) 
  
 CARMEL VALLEY, Calif. — Americans should be braced for a long battle against the brutal terrorist group Islamic State that will test U.S. resolve — and the leadership of the commander in chief, says Leon Panetta, who headed the CIA and then the Pentagon as Al Qaeda was weakened and Osama bin Laden killed. 
  
 "I think we're looking at kind of a 30-year war," he says, one that will have to extend beyond Islamic State to include emerging threats in Nigeria, Somalia, Yemen, Libya and elsewhere. 
  
 In his first interview about his new book, Worthy Fights: A Memoir of Leadership in War and Peace, Panetta argues that decisions made by President Obama over the past three years have made that battle more difficult — an explosive assessment by a respected policymaker of the president he served. 
  
 Even before it's published Tuesday by Penguin Press, the 512-page book has provoked rebukes at the State Department and by Vice President Biden. But Panetta says he was determined to write a book that was "honest," including his high regard for the president on some fronts and his deep concern about his leadership on others. 
  
 In an interview at his home with Capital Download, USA TODAY's video newsmaker series, Panetta says Obama erred: 
  
 • By not pushing the Iraqi government harder to allow a residual U.S. force to remain when troops withdrew in 2011, a deal he says could have been negotiated with more effort. That "created a vacuum in terms of the ability of that country to better protect itself, and it's out of that vacuum that ISIS began to breed." Islamic State also is known as ISIS and ISIL. 
  
 • By rejecting the advice of top aides — including Panetta and then-secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton — to begin arming Syrian rebels in 2012. If the U.S. had done so, "I do think we would be in a better position to kind of know whether or not there is some moderate element in the rebel forces that are confronting (Syrian President Bashar) Assad." 
  
 • By warning Assad not to use chemical weapons against his own people, then failing to act when that "red line" was crossed in 2013. Before ordering airstrikes, Obama said he wanted to seek congressional authorization, which predictably didn't happen. 
  
 The reversal cost the United States credibility then and is complicating efforts to enlist international allies now to join a coalition against the Islamic State, Panetta says. "There's a little question mark to, is the United States going to stick this out? Is the United States going to be there when we need them?" 
  
 Showing leadership in the fight against ISIS is an opportunity "to repair the damage," he says. He says it's also a chance for Obama to get a fresh start after having "lost his way." 
  
 Leon Panetta at home in Monterey, Calif. (Photo: Michael Howard Kofsky for USA TODAY) 
  
 On Friday, the terrorist group released a video that showed the beheading of a fourth Westerner, British aid worker Alan Henning, and threatened to execute American hostage Abdul-Rahman (formerly Peter) Kassig next. 
  
 MULTIPLE MEMOIRS 
  
 Panetta's behind-the-scenes account of events during Obama's first term, including the internal debate over helping Syrian rebels, is consistent with those in memoirs published this year by Hillary Clinton and Robert Gates, whom Panetta succeeded as Defense secretary. 
  
 But Panetta's portrait of Obama is more sharply drawn and explicitly critical. 
  
 He praises the president for "his intelligence, his convictions, and his determination to do what was best for the country." He notes that Obama has faced bitter opposition, especially from congressional Republicans. He credits him with scoring significant progress in fighting terrorism and righting the economy. 
  
 In the book's final chapter, however, he writes that Obama's "most conspicuous weakness" is "a frustrating reticence to engage his opponents and rally support for his cause." Too often, he "relies on the logic of a law professor rather than the passion of a leader." On occasion, he "avoids the battle, complains, and misses opportunities." 
  
 2014 _ Leon Panetta's book Worthy Fights. Written by Leon Panetta and Jim Newton. Handout via Penguin Press (Photo: Penguin Press) 
  
 In the interview, Panetta says he thinks Obama "gets so discouraged by the process" that he sometimes stops fighting. 
  
 An example: The budget deal that included automatic spending cuts known as sequestration. Even though nearly everyone agreed privately that they were bad policy, Panetta says he found himself a lonely figure actively opposing them by lobbying Congress and making speeches warning that the Pentagon cuts would harm national security. 
  
 The book was the target of a veiled rebuke Thursday by Biden. "I'm finding that former administration officials, as soon as they leave write books, which I think is inappropriate," Biden told students at Harvard. "At least give the guy a chance to get out of office." 
  
 The vice president disputed whether it would have made a difference if U.S. aid had been given earlier to Syrian rebels, and State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki denied that a deal to allow a residual force in Iraq could have been reached in the face of resistance by then-prime minister Nouri al-Maliki. 
  
 It is surely no surprise to Panetta that his assessment is drawing White House ire. He provides fodder for the blistering partisan critiques of Obama's leadership by Republicans, and he is considerably more candid about his misgivings than is typical in memoirs by former officials about the presidents they served, especially while they are still in office. 
  
 "Look, I've been a guy who's always been honest," Panetta says. "I've been honest in politics, honest with the people that I deal with. I've been a straight talker. Some people like it; some people don't like it. But I wasn't going to write a book that kind of didn't express what I thought was the case." 
  
 Panetta also argues that there is time for Obama to change tactics and recover — and that it is imperative he do so. 
  
 Congressional leaders, Democratic and Republican, share the blame for the dysfunctional state of affairs in Washington, he says, but he adds they might well respond to stronger and more engaged presidential leadership. 
  
 "He's going to have to jump in the ring and fight it out for the next two years," Panetta says. "My hope is that the president, recognizing that we are at a kind of critical point in his administration, will take the bit in his teeth and will say, 'We have got to solve these problems." 
  
 'THE AMERICAN STORY' 
  
 Panetta's résumé gives his words weight. He has held top jobs in Congress and the executive branch, dealing with both domestic and national security issues, and emerged with his reputation for competence and good humor intact. 
  
 "In many ways, my story is the American story," he says when asked why he wrote the memoir. "I'm the son of Italian immigrants, and they really believed that by coming to this country they could give their children a better life, and the reality is, I kind of lived that life." 
  
 At first a moderate Republican, he worked in the Nixon administration before being pushed out after aggressively enforcing civil rights laws. He changed parties, was elected to nine terms in the House from California as a Democrat and served as chairman of the House Budget Committee. Clinton appointed him Budget director, then moved him to White House chief of staff to impose order in what had been a chaotic operation. After the 2008 election, Obama tapped him as CIA director, then named him to head the Pentagon. 
  
 At the end of Obama's first term, Panetta headed home to California, where he and his wife, Sylvia, have founded the Panetta Institute for Public Policy, based at California State University-Monterey Bay — an institution he helped establish in his congressional district when Fort Ord closed. 
  
 Now 76, he lives in the comfortable, casual house his father built in 1948, on a 12-acre ranch dotted with the walnut and elm trees planted then. In one corner of the living room is the Baldwin grand piano his parents gave him for his 12th birthday. (His musical prowess raised his mother's hopes that he would become a concert pianist, though his father at one point advised dentistry as a career.) Framed family photos are everywhere. 
  
 His 12-year-old golden retriever, Bravo, trails him indoors and out. 
  
 Sitting in the living room, Panetta briefly assesses the legacies of the three presidents he has served. 
  
 For Richard Nixon, history will "probably be a little kinder to him later on," given his achievements in opening relations with China, protecting the environment and other issues. "But the problem is that once a president resigns because of scandal, I think that'll always darken his view in history." 
  
 For Bill Clinton, history will remember that he "always kept fighting back" to get things done, even while battling impeachment. "Whether it was Democrats or Republicans, you know, he found a way to be able to do some things, to be able to accomplish some things that were important." 
  
 He makes a similar observation about Hillary Clinton, saying she would be a "great" president. "One thing about the Clintons is, they want to get it done," he says, in words that draw an implicit contrast with Obama. "When it comes to being president of the United States, it's one thing to talk a good game. It's another thing to deliver, to make things happen." 
  
 And Barack Obama's legacy? 
  
 "We are at a point where I think the jury is still out," Panetta says. "For the first four years, and the time I spent there, I thought he was a strong leader on security issues. ... But these last two years I think he kind of lost his way. You know, it's been a mixed message, a little ambivalence in trying to approach these issues and try to clarify what the role of this country is all about. 
  
 "He may have found himself again with regards to this ISIS crisis. I hope that's the case. And if he's willing to roll up his sleeves and engage with Congress in taking on some of these other issues, as I said I think he can establish a very strong legacy as president. I think these next 2 1/2 years will tell us an awful lot about what history has to say about the Obama administration." 
  
 Former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta at home in Calif. (Photo: Michael Howard Kofsky for USA TODAY) 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1vIuk2i |||||