The French may be known for a certain style of kissing, but the term was never officially recognized in France -- until now. 
  
 With the release of the 2014 edition of the Le Petit Robert dictionary, "French kiss," meaning to kiss with tongues, has finally entered the French language. 
  
 When the prominent French-language dictionary hit stores on Thursday, there were some new additions to the French vocabulary including "galoche," (French kiss) and "galocher" (the verb form), according to France 24. 
  
 Though French kissing is widely recognized, there was never one word in the French language to describe this particular type of kiss. "Baiser avec la langue" (to kiss with the tongue) was commonly used to describe the action, until the slang term "galocher" cropped up. 
  
 As the Associated Press notes, the term is believed to have spread in the English language after soldiers returned from Europe following World War I. 
  
 "French kiss" is one of several new words Le Petit Robert included in its 2014 edition. Other newly inducted terms include "clasher" (to clash), "bombasse" (a sexually attractive person) and "Dim-sum" (a type of Cantonese food). 
  
 Each year, Le Petit Robert's editorial board holds a debate over which words should be introduced. Board members then vote on the final contenders, deciding which terms will make the cut. 
  
 "The hundred words that are included each year in Robert are chosen with great care," editorial board director Laurence Laporte told Le Point. 
  
 Also on HuffPost: ||||| In Australia, it's called pashing. 
  
 In Germany the term is knutschen. 
  
 In the UK they say "snog," and in the US the kids call it "making out." 
  
 Finally, after years of walking the walk — the French are finally talking the talk. 
  
 Yes, the French are no longer being tightlipped regarding their iconic kissing method and are finally embracing the term "French kiss." 
  
 Galocher — to kiss with tongues — is among the new entries that are being added to the Petit Robert Dictionary 2014 edition, which hits the bookstore shelves on Thursday. 
  
 In French, "La galoche" is an ice-skating boot, so it has been suggested that the new term riffs evocatively on the idea of sliding around the ice. 
  
 While the French may be a little late to the soiree in terms of lip-locking lingo, that certainly doesn't mean they haven't earned their smooching stripes in other ways. 
  
 After all, a French kiss is so-called because at the beginning of the 20th century the French had a reputation for more adventurous and passionate sexual practices. 
  
 Until recently, however, French kissing in France was not-so-simply referred to as baiser amoureux or "lover's kiss" or more specifically, baiser avec la langue, or "kissing with the tongue." 
  
 Now that the French have a quick, definitive way of describing their unofficial national pasttime — they will hopefully be able save some valuable time, allowing them to instead refocus their efforts on more pressing matters, such as... well, you get the idea. |||||