The Hugh Fraser Foundation has pledged £300,000, with £250,000 to come from the Cameron Mackintosh Foundation.
GSA aims to raise £20m to restore the famous building which was badly damaged by fire on 23 May.
The most recent pledges and individual donations by members of the public mean the fund currently stands at £6.4m
This figure is made up of the Hugh Fraser Foundation £300,000; the Cameron Mackintosh Foundation £250,000; £150,000 in individual donations; £700,000 of Scottish government match funding (increasing to a total of £5m in line with future donations) and a £5m pledge from the UK government.
The Hugh Fraser Foundation was established in 1960 by Sir Hugh Fraser with shares in House of Fraser and other investments.
Dr Kenneth Chrystie, chairman of the Hugh Fraser Foundation, said the trustees were clear that they "wished to make a major and public show of support" for GSA following the fire.
"We felt that it was a great privilege to be able to support the GSA to begin the process of reconstruction and recovery," he said.
"I am confident that the fundraising appeal will attract world-wide support from those who share with us the desire to see the school not only recover, but regain momentum towards its future success."
Firefighters managed to save 90% of the building, named after internationally renowned designer and architect Charles Rennie Mackintosh, and 70% of its contents.
GSA estimates the cost of restoring the building to be between £20m and £35m and believes the work could take up to four years.
The appeal fund, which has Hollywood star Brad Pitt and Dr Who actor Peter Capaldi among its trustees, was set up last month to help raise £20m.
British theatre producer Sir Cameron Mackintosh said that he hoped the donation through his foundation would encourage others to follow.
"It is hardly surprising the tragic news of the fire spread globally and we are all encouraged by the GSA's clear determination to restore the wonderful building," he said.
"My admiration for Charles Rennie Mackintosh and my personal passion for original architectural design makes me even more pleased to be able to become one of the first donors to your appeal.
"The contribution from my foundation will, I hope, encourage others to follow suit and it comes with enormous gratitude and respect for what you have achieved and will continue to do."
GSA director Professor Tom Inns said everyone at the school had "been moved by the incredible generosity" they had been shown since the fire.
"The GSA has been honoured to have the financial and personal support of the Hugh Fraser Foundation over many years, and this most recent donation is very much appreciated," he said.
"The kind words of Sir Cameron and the support of The Mackintosh Foundation are also most welcome at this difficult time.
"I would also like to extend the heartfelt thanks of The Glasgow School of Art to all the institutions and individuals who have donated to the appeal to date.
"This support along with the many, many messages of good will and offers of academic and other expert support have meant so much to us."