A Niagara Regional Police officer is in stable condition in a Hamilton hospital after being shot by a fellow police officer in Pelham, Ont., the service says. 
  
 Around noon Thursday, several officers were investigating a collision that had happened days before in the area of Effingham Street and Roland Road in the rural area southwest of St. Catharines, Ont., when two of the officers became involved in an altercation, according to Monica Hudon, spokesperson for Ontario's Special Investigations Unit. 
  
 One of the officers, 52 years old, was seriously injured, said Hudon. 
  
 Niagara police say the officer who was shot has served for 28 years and is assigned to uniform patrol in Welland and Pelham. 
  
 He was rushed to hospital in critical condition, but the service issued a statement Thursday evening saying he was in stable condition. The officer's name has not been released. 
  
 SIU working to understand officers' relationship 
  
 Hudon could not say how many gunshots hit the officer, where he was struck or if both officers fired their weapons. 
  
 The spokesperson also had no information about what led to the shooting or their relationship. 
  
 "Understanding what transpired and the relationship between the officers is part of the SIU's investigation," said Hudon. 
  
 "I can only tell you that there was an altercation, a firearm was discharged and one officer was struck." 
  
 The SIU is investigating the shooting in Pelham, a rural area southwest of St. Catharines, Ont. (Dave Ritchie/CBC) 
  
 Niagara Police chief Bryan MacCulloch said he has asked the Ontario Provincial Police to determine if there is any criminal culpability outside of the SIU's scope, but added no arrests have been made in connection with the shooting 
  
 "The days and weeks ahead will be trying ones for the NRPS family and the community we serve," he said. "I ask for your support for our members and all those involved." 
  
 The Niagara police said in an earlier statement Thursday afternoon that there was "an incident in Pelham involving members of the NRPS." 
  
 "An officer has been transported by paramedics from the scene with injuries." 
  
 The statement did not describe the nature of the incident. 
  
 "As the SIU is involved we are prohibited from providing further information at this time," the statement reads. 
  
 Ontario's Special Investigations Unit is looking into a shooting involving two officers on the Niagara's regional police force. (CBC) 
  
 Ornge Air Ambulance said a person was transported by helicopter from a St. Catharines hospital to a Hamilton trauma centre in critical condition. 
  
 Eight SIU investigators and three forensic investigators have been assigned to the case, said Hudon, and officers are canvassing for video evidence. 
  
 "We are interviewing witnesses and we're asking other witnesses to come forward if they have information." 
  
 The SIU can confirm it is investigating an interaction between two Niagara Regional Police Service officers, and the gunshot wound sustained by one of the officers. SIU spokesperson en route to scene. Scrum early evening. —@SIUOntario 
  
 Police car was 'head-first in the ditch' 
  
 She said the SIU has not designated any subject or witness officers as of Thursday evening. 
  
 The SIU is an arm's-length agency that investigates reports involving police where there has been death, serious injury or allegations of sexual assault. 
  
 Hudon said the watchdog has investigated cases where a police officer was shot by another officer, but noted it's too early to determine if Thursday's shooting shares any similarities with past incidents. 
  
 'The SIU is mandated to investigate any incident involving police where someone has been seriously injured or has died,' a spokesperson said. (Samantha Craggs/CBC) 
  
 She also made clear why this case falls within the SIU mandate. 
  
 "The SIU is mandated to investigate any incident involving police where someone has been seriously injured or has died. Whether the person who was injured was a civilian or a police officer, the SIU mandate is invoked anytime that happens." 
  
 People living in the area said the shooting led to a rush of squad cars racing to the scene in the early afternoon. Robin Zavitz said she was driving home at about 1:30 p.m. when she came across a police blockade. She said she could see a police SUV in a ditch and numerous squad cars nearby. 
  
 "The police car is head-first in the ditch and there doesn't appear to be any damage to it," Zavitz said. "It's scary when a police officer has been shot in the middle of the day." 
  
 Zavitz said a police car had been blocking the road at the same intersection all morning, but added the flurry of police activity didn't occur until the early afternoon. Niagara regional police had tweeted earlier Thursday that the road would be partially closed for an investigation. 
  
 Mike Shepherd was driving home when he came across the same intersection at about 11:30 a.m. An officer was in his squad car, blocking the road eastbound, Shepherd said. 
  
 "He said they were doing an accident investigation down the road." A little more than an hour later, he said an ambulance rushed by. 
  
 Niagara's police services board says it's "deeply concerned" about the shooting, but didn't say much else. 
  
 "The law requires that there be no public comment on or discussion of the specifics of the occurrence under investigation until the SIU investigation and the chief's external review are completed," it said in a statement. 
  
  
  
 But "on behalf of the board," it said, "chair Bob Gale extends our thoughts and prayers to the officers and their families." ||||| A Niagara Regional Police officer is in critical condition after being shot Thursday by a fellow officer during an altercation between the two men in rural Pelham, says provincial Special Investigations Unit spokeswoman Monica Hudon. Hudon made her remarks shortly after 6 p.m. at a news conference on Roland Rd. just west of Effingham St. 
  
 According to police sources, a Niagara Regional Police officer shot another officer in an argument during a collision reconstruction unit investigation Thursday in rural Pelham, Ont. ( Dave Johnson / The Welland Tribune ) 
  
 She said officers were in the area conducting a follow-up investigation of a Nov. 12 impaired driving collision in the area of Sulphur Spring Dr. and Roland Rd.. “Around noon there was an interaction between two of the officers and one of the officers was struck by a gunshot,” said Hudon. The nature of the altercation between the officers has not been disclosed. 
  
 Article Continued Below 
  
 She couldn’t confirm the number of times the officer, identified by multiple police sources as Const. Nathan Parker, was shot. But those sources told The Standard Parker was hit at least five times. The other officer involved in the incident has been identified by multiple police sources as Det. Sgt. Shane Donovan of the traffic collision reconstruction unit. 
  
 Hudon did not confirm the officers’ names. Parker is reported to be 52-years-old. Hudon did not have an age for the other officer. Niagara Emergency Medical Services paramedics treated Parker at the scene and transported him to an area hospital. Parker was later transferred by Orgne air ambulance to Hamilton General Hospital where he was listed in critical condition. She also asked that anyone who may have video of the shooting to share it with the SIU or upload it to the SIU website. 
  
 The SIU investigates all incidents of serious injury or death involving police in Ontario. “Understanding what transpired and the relationship between the two officers is part of the investigation. I can only tell you there was an altercation and a firearm was discharged,” Hudon said. 
  
 Article Continued Below 
  
 Asked the exact location of the incident, she said it was in the area of Effingham St. and Roland Rd. “It’s very early in the investigation … we’re in the preliminary stages and it will take time to gather all of the details.” No charges have been laid. Niagara OPP officers were blocking the area around the shooting and Hudon said they were holding the scene for the SIU. There was no word on when Effingham, blocked between Sixteen Rd. and Wessel Dr., and Roland, blocked between Sulphur Spring and just west of Effingham, would be reopened. In a release, NRP Chief Bryan MacCulloch said in the spirit of transparency, he asked the OPP to determine if there was any criminal culpability outside of the SIU’s scope. “The days and weeks ahead will be trying ones for the regional police family and the community we serve. I ask for your support for our members and all those involved,” MacCulloch said. In a release earlier in the day, police said because the SIU is involved the service is prohibited from providing further information. Parker has a long and troubled history with the NRP, having faced at least four disciplinary hearings, three of which involved violence. In 2015, Parker was docked 120 hours’ pay after pleading guilty to discreditable conduct and unnecessary use of force against a prisoner under the Police Services Act. In 2012, Parker was docked 60 hours of pay after pleading guilty to discreditable conduct after pursuing his own investigation into a commanding officer who had been cleared of wrongdoing from a previous incident. Parker was found guilty of using unnecessary force in 2011 and docked 90 days’ pay for arresting a cyclist without cause in 2008. And in 2007, Parker lost a week’s pay after he was found guilty in a disciplinary hearing for pepper-spraying a prisoner who was handcuffed and restrained in the back seat of a cruiser in 2005. The impaired driving collision investigation scene the two officers were at involved an incident that happened Nov. 12 at about 10:54 p.m. It was determined a 19-year-old Pelham man was operating a 2016 Ford Focus with two 19-year-old female passengers when he was unable to negotiate a curve and lost control, entered a ditch and struck a tree. The vehicle burst into flames, and the fire was extinguished by the Pelham fire department. The vehicle was destroyed. The man was able to get out of the car, but the two passengers had to be rescued from the burning vehicle by a local resident and a passing motorist. They both sustained serious injuries, with one later being transported to an out-of-region trauma centre for treatment of critical injuries. Mike Zettel, a reporter with The Tribune’s sister paper Niagara This Week, spoke with Donovan Thursday morning near the investigation scene. “He was very friendly and very helpful,” said Zettel. “Often when a reporter gets to a scene like that, the officer you talk to is just there at the roadblock and might not know anything about the incident. But I got lucky. (Donovan) was able to explain what was going on.” The police service’s union, Niagara Region Police Association, has mobilized to provide support to the impacted officers, police staff and their families. Association president Cliff Priest, who is also an NRP officer, said there haven’t been many cases of NRP officers being shot while on duty, but each one is difficult for the entire service. Dave Johnson is a reporter for The Welland Tribune. Grant LaFleche is an Investigative journalist at the St. Catharines Standard. 
  
 Read more about: ||||| It was a dark day for policing in Niagara Region and the rest of the province. 
  
 A Niagara Regional Police constable was in grave condition after being shot in an altercation with a fellow officer who outranked him. 
  
 The shooting, sources say, followed a “heated argument” and “fist fight” between a constable and a detective sergeant responding to a traffic accident around Roland Rd. and Effingham St. in Pelham, 22 kilometres south of St. Catharines. 
  
 Wounded Const. Nathan Parker was in hospital fighting for his life Thursday while Det.-Sgt. Shane Donovan was determined to be the subject officer by the province’s Special Investigations Unit (SIU). 
  
 Sources told the Toronto Sun that Donovan was losing a fight before the shooting. Up to five bullets were allegedly discharged from a police officer’s gun. 
  
 There have been accidental shootings of police officers by their partners but in his more than 50 years as a Toronto Police officer, newly-named OPP Commissioner Ron Taverner, currently a superintendent, said he can’t recall ever hearing of a case where an officer shot a peer. 
  
 “It’s very sad and our thoughts are with the Niagara Police today,” he said. 
  
 The shooting victim, sources say, did not pull a weapon. 
  
 The SIU confirmed it is investigating an interaction between two Niagara Regional Police Service officers, and one of the cops suffered a gunshot wound. 
  
 There have been no reports so far of anybody being taken into custody and the SIU is leading the investigation. 
  
 The SIU can confirm it is investigating an interaction between two Niagara Regional Police Service officers, and the gunshot wound sustained by one of the officers. SIU spokesperson en route to scene. Scrum early evening. — SIU (@SIUOntario) November 29, 2018 
  
 “The SIU can confirm it is investigating an interaction between two Niagara Regional Police Service officers, and the gunshot wound sustained by one of the officers,” the SIU said in a tweet. 
  
 Niagara Regional Police later released a statement explaining the injured officer’s condition has been upgraded to stable. 
  
 “In the spirit of transparency, I have asked the Ontario Provincial Police to determine if there is any criminal culpability outside of the SIU’s scope,” Chief Bryan MacCulloch said in the statement. 
  
 “The days and weeks ahead will be trying ones for the NRPS family and the community we serve,” MacCulloch said. “I ask for your support for our members and all those involved.” 
  
 Sources say there may have been some “bad blood” between the two officers involved. 
  
 Sources told the Toronto Sun Parker has had a troubled past of police act charges and discipline issues. 
  
 Policing insiders say Parker racked up Police Services Act convictions, including for violence against prisoners, during his career. 
  
 He was docked 120 hours in 2015 after pleading guilty to discreditable conduct and unnecessary use of force against a prisoner. 
  
 In 2012, he was docked 60 hours pay after conducting his own investigation into a commanding officer who had been cleared of wrongdoing from a previous incident. 
  
 In 2011, Parker was found guilty of using unnecessary force and in 2008, he was docked 90 days pay for arresting a cyclist without cause. 
  
 In 2007, Parker lost a week’s pay after he was found guilty in a disciplinary hearing for pepper-spraying a handcuffed and restrained prisoner in the backseat of a cruiser in 2005. 
  
 Police sources say the constable was shot at least three times. 
  
 Local residents said the incident led to a rush of squad cars racing to the scene in the early afternoon. 
  
 Robin Zavitz, who lives in the area, said she was driving home around 1:30 p.m. when she came across a police blockade. She said she could see a police SUV in the ditch and numerous squad cars nearby. 
  
 “The police car is head-first in the ditch and there doesn’t appear to be any damage to it,” Zavitz said. 
  
 “It’s scary when a police officer has been shot in the middle of the day.” 
  
 Zavitz said a police car had been blocking the road at the same intersection all morning, but added the flurry of police activity didn’t occur until the early afternoon. 
  
 Mike Shepherd was driving home earlier in the day when he came across the same intersection around 11:30 a.m. An officer was in his squad car, blocking the road eastbound, Shepherd said. 
  
 “He said they were doing an accident investigation down the road,” Shepherd added. 
  
 A little more than an hour later, he said he saw an ambulance rush by. 
  
 — With files from The Canadian Press 
  
 jwarmington@postmedia.com 
  
 spazzano@postmedia.com |||||