Strike action has been taken over new TA contracts, which could see them lose about £6,000 a year, says Unison.
City council leader Ranjit Banwait said the protests were having "little impact on children and families".
However, parents of children with special needs said their lives are being turned upside down by the action.
More on this story and other news in Derbyshire
The long-running row has led to strikes across schools in Derby in October, December and January, with more being planned next week.
Special needs schools are particularly vulnerable to disruption because of a lack of specialist staff, which volunteers cannot easily replace, according to families.
It has forced some special schools to close early, meaning parents have often had to pick up children - some with complex needs - in the middle of the working day.
Gemma Walker, whose son has autism, said the disruption has caused "challenging behaviour" in some of the children.
"[The children] don't know whether they are coming or going," said Mrs Walker, whose son attends St Andrew's school.
Jackie Cox, whose 10-year-old son is a pupil at Ivy House special school in Littleover, said she was upset at Mr Banwait's claim the disruption is having little effect.
She said there were difficulties facing parents of children with "severe medical complex needs" during industrial action, and it had an impact on their education and family life.
However, Simon Maingay, whose son is at Portway Junior School, in Allestree, said: "[Teaching assistants] need to be grateful they've got a job.
"They're brilliant guys, they do a great job, but the council aren't going to budge on this."
Unison spokesman Oliver Coppard said staff at special needs schools were "amongst the hardest hit because of the council's decision not to recognise their extra qualifications and responsibilities".
"No staff ever want to strike," he said.
City council spokesman Janie Berry said: "We are working with all of our head teachers to ensure that they are making use of all the resources they have to minimise disruption."