Jeff Amyx, the owner of Amyx Hardware & Roofing Supplies in Grainger County in Tennessee, has put up signs to show his anger at the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling on same-sex marriage. 
  
 Amyx, who is a Baptist minister, has put up handwritten signs in his hardware store window that say “No Gays Allowed.” He has told local media that he put the signs up because both gay and lesbian couples go against his religious beliefs, reports WKYC. 
  
 On Monday, Amyx said that he realized that homosexual people are not afraid to stand up for what they believe in, so he put up the signs to show Christians that they should stand up for their beliefs as well, reports the Advocate. 
  
 “They gladly stand for what they believe in, why can’t I? They believe their way is right, I believe it’s wrong. But yet I’m going to take more persecution than them because I’m standing for what I believe in.” 
  
 After the story aired on local news stations people began leaving reviews for the business on Google Reviews and other sites. 
  
 One Google reviewer posted: “The owner of Amyx Hardware & Roofing Supplies in Grainger County has placed a sign in the front window of his business specifying that gay Americans will not be allowed in his store, much like Black Americans were once prohibited from frequenting privately owned facilities that were generally open to the public. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 made such de jure discrimination illegal. This sign also denies gay people the same rights enjoyed by other citizens and is unlikely to pass Constitutional muster. Any person who values fairness, justice, and equal treatment of all Americans should avoid this store.” 
  
 WKYC Channel 3 shared the story on their Facebook page and received hundreds of comments. 
  
 One follower commented: “When you open a store to the public, you are subject to all state and local laws, including anti-discrimination laws. Imagine if that sign said ‘no blacks allowed’ or ‘No Jews.’ Think he’d be open long? If I lived there, my money goes down the street.” 
  
 Another follower responded with: “Ok enough already. I am a Christian. A conservative Christian. I’ll admit i was saddened by the SCOTUS ruling. But serioulsy???? Gay and lesbian couples are against your religion???What does that even mean? Are gluttons and adulterers and drunks and liars and slanderers allowed in your store?” 
  
 “Let’s go over this again, Einstein. If your business is open to the public, you don’t get to decide who the public is. You are not allowed to discriminate. I hope they shut your hate factory down,” another follower posted. 
  
 Despite the backlash, Amyx says he has no plans to take the signs down. 
  
 [Photo via WBIR screen shots.] ||||| A Tennessee hardware store owner has been getting death threats after posting a "No Gays Allowed" sign on his front door, but he stands by his homophobic message. 
  
 Jeff Amyx, who owns Amyx Hardware and Roofing Supplies in Washburn, slapped the handwritten poster on his business after last week's Supreme Court ruling that legalized same-sex marriage across the United States. 
  
 "A lot of people have called me and congratulated me (and) people calling and threatening me telling me I would regret this," Amyx told WATE-TV. "No, I'll never regret this." 
  
 The 44-year-old hardware store owner put up the sign to "let the homosexual people know that there are Christian people that are willing to take a stand," he told the news station Wednesday. 
  
 A Tennessee hardware store owner posted this "No Gays Allowed" sign on his front door. (WBIR.com) 
  
 He replaced the message Tuesday with a new sign that says: "We reserve the right to refuse service to anyone who would violate our rights of freedom of speech and freedom of religion." 
  
 Amyx, a self-described "blunt" man, claims he has nothing against gay people and has offered to read them passages from the Bible at his store. 
  
 "I don't hate people," Amyx said. "It's not the people I hate, it's the sin that I hate." 
  
 Jeff Amyx, who owns Amyx Hardware and Roofing Supplies in Washburn, lsaid he'll "never regret" putting up the "No Gays Allowed" sign on his front door. (wabc) Jeff Amyx, who owns Amyx Hardware and Roofing Supplies in Washburn, later took down the "No Gays Allowed" sign and replaced it with this message. (wabc) 
  
 He could not be immediately reached for comment. 
  
 ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE. ||||| An East Tennessee hardware store has a strong message on its front door: "No gays allowed." 
  
 Jeff Amyx, owner of Amyx Hardware and Roofing Supplies, put that message up on his store's door Monday. 
  
 He says he was fed up with all of the positive feedback following Friday's Supreme Court ruling legalizing same-sex marriage. He wants gay customers to know they are not welcome. 
  
 "I don't want them around me. Because their lifestyle is what I disagree with. People say 'you need to accept them, you need to accept them.' I don't have to," he says. 
  
 Amyx took down the original sign Tuesday morning and replaced it with one less harsh. The new sign reads "We reserve the right to refuse service to anyone who would violate our rights of freedom of speech & freedom of religion." 
  
 But he hasn't changed his feelings that gay customers should find somewhere else to spend their money. 
  
 "Would you let a child molester come in your home, around your kids? Of course not. So why would I let a homosexual hang around me? It's against my nature, it's against my way of life, it's against my religion," he says. 
  
 He's already getting calls from around the country. Some people are calling to support him, others to harass him. But Amyx, who's a Baptist minister, feels he has to stand up for his beliefs. 
  
 "Homosexuals stand boldly for what they believe. Why can't I stand boldly for what I believe? Why can't I stand boldly and say I believe the word of God over them?" he says. 
  
 Customers we talked to all agree with Amyx and his policy. 
  
 But around town, some people like Jennifer Pinnick, say they'll never go back to that store. 
  
 "To know that something like that is in this town, it's appalling. Because everybody is so nice, kind, religious, great beliefs," she says. 
  
 Amyx feels what he does with his store is his right. He'll still sell to gay customers as long as they "behave" and keep their opinions to themselves. 
  
 "Homosexuality is not a nationality, it's not a race of people, it's a group of people who practice a sinful lifestyle," he says. 
  
 He doesn't plan to take down the sign. |||||