Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| President Donald Trump walks with first lady Melania Trump to Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House on Aug. 29. | Jacquelyn Martin/AP Melania's stiletto sideshow As the first lady departed to see storm fallout in Texas, Twitter erupted with critiques of her shoe choice. 
  
 Melania Trump, the former model and reluctant first lady, often lets her fashion choices do the talking for her. 
  
 Since her belated move into the White House in June, Melania Trump hasn’t yet announced an issue, or even an area of interest, for which she plans to advocate from her powerful platform. She has made few public speeches or statements, beyond introductions at campaign rallies she attends with her husband. But she’s dutifully stepped into the silent role of enhancing her husband by appearing impeccably and appropriately dressed by his side. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 “Classy and conservative,” were the reviews from the local Saudi Arabian press after the first lady landed in Riyadh last spring dressed in a black, belted jumpsuit. The deep red Christian Dior “bar suit” she wore to visit Paris for Bastille Day in July was deemed to be a culturally appropriate choice highlighting an icon of French fashion. 
  
 But on Tuesday, she appeared to put the wrong foot forward when she boarded Marine One, en route to visit emergency responders in hurricane-ravaged Texas, wearing towering black snakeskin stilettos. 
  
 The emblematic first image of the first lady heading off to visit a hurricane in heels — a moment that the president has seized on as an opportunity to project strength and show off decisive leadership — instead became another symbol of a White House that can often seem out of touch. 
  
 The most reliable politics newsletter. Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
  
 Lisa Kline, who worked as a stylist to vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin during the 2008 election, said in an interview she thought “it was a mistake in the message it relays. A lot of eyes were on them. They’re going to a devastated area. She should be dressed accordingly.” 
  
 The heels at least temporarily stole the spotlight from a gloomy president who aides said has been buoyed by what he sees, so far, as an effective coordinated response to a record-breaking storm. 
  
 “Tan suit looks pretty good today, doesn’t it?” Valerie Jarrett, a former top adviser to President Barack Obama, tweeted, referring to the Republican outcry over Obama’s summer look to discuss serious national security issues at a news conference in 2014. 
  
 Former first lady Michelle Obama also created her own fashion scandal in 2009, when she wore a pair of $540 Lanvin sneakers to volunteer at a food bank in Washington. 
  
 “Small gestures send big messages,” journalist Jamil Smith wrote on Twitter, regarding the first lady’s shoe choice. “It isn’t that they keep getting it wrong. They don’t care about getting it right.” 
  
 On board Air Force One to Corpus Christi, as the picture of the delicate heels ricocheted across the Internet, Melania Trump changed into a pair of bright, white sneakers, which looked fresh out of the box. 
  
 She wasn’t the only female member of the Trump delegation wearing footwear that raised eyebrows — two other women were spotted on Air Force One wearing pumps and suede heels. 
  
 The debate over the first lady’s shoes wasn’t an isolated fashion faux pas for the women who act as the face of the Trump administration. 
  
 A week after her father’s inauguration in January, Ivanka Trump posted a picture of herself wearing a $5,000 silver Carolina Herrera gown — the same night protests erupted at airports across the country over Trump’s executive order banning refugees from majority-Muslim countries from entering the United States. 
  
 People close to the first daughter said at the time she felt “terrible” about the dissonance between the image projected from her Kalorama mansion and the painful photographs of refugees being detained at international airports. But the picture still lives on her public Instagram account, where it has been applauded with more than 266,000 “likes.” 
  
 Louise Linton, the wife of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, seemed to relish her distance from the average, middle-class American woman when she posted a Jackie O.-inspired snap of herself on Instagram, while accompanying her husband on a “day trip” to Kentucky earlier this month aboard a government plane. In the photo, Linton tagged all of the designer labels she was sporting, including her Hermes scarf and her Valentino rockstud heels. 
  
 She then lashed out with snide vitriol at a mother of three from Oregon who expressed distaste at her public post. An apology came later, via a crisis-managing publicist, in which Linton called the post and her comments “highly insensitive.” 
  
 There was no acknowledgment from the White House that the first lady’s storm attire was at all off-key. Instead, her staff blamed the media for creating a “sad” side circus to an otherwise somber day. 
  
 “It’s sad that we have an active and ongoing natural disaster in Texas,” said Stephanie Grisham, a spokeswoman for the first lady, “and people are worried about her shoes.” 
  
 Later Tuesday, the first lady’s office released a statement on the storm. “I want to be able to offer my help and support in the most productive way possible, not through just words, but also action,” the first lady said. “What I found to be the most profound during the visit was not only the strength and resilience of the people of Texas, but the compassion and sense of community that has taken over the state. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with the people of Texas and Louisiana.” ||||| Vanessa Friedman ON THE RUNWAY 
  
 When is a shoe not just a shoe? 
  
 When it is a pair of very high, needle-thin heels worn by the first lady of the United States on her way to the site of a natural disaster. Then it becomes a symbol for what many see as the disconnect between the Trump administration and reality; another example of the way in which this president and his family continue to define “appropriate” their own way; and an excuse for partisan name-calling. 
  
 Or so became apparent Tuesday morning when President Trump and his wife left the White House to fly to Texas for a briefing on the devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey, and Mrs. Trump appeared on the lawn in black pegged trousers, black shades, an olive green bomber jacket — and her stilettos, now a trademark. Very much the same kind of shoes, in other words, she has been wearing since long before she joined her husband on the campaign trail. 
  
 Though by the time the plane had landed Mrs. Trump looked altogether more grounded, in white sneakers and crisp white shirt, with a ponytail pulled through a black baseball cap emblazoned with the word “FLOTUS,” during her time in the air the original shoes went from being mere footwear to objects of vilification thanks to social media’s specific kind of alchemy. 
  
 Nothing says I'm in touch with the people like... https://t.co/ZD6cEfG0LS — Todd Stashwick (@ToddStashwick) August 29, 2017 
  
 In response to the critical reaction, Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trump’s communications director, emailed the following statement: “It’s sad that we have an active and ongoing natural disaster in Texas, and people are worried about her shoes.” 
  
 The president and Mrs. Trump arriving in Corpus Christi, Tex., on Tuesday. Doug Mills / The New York Times 
  
 That’s a fair point, to a certain extent. Certainly there was a backlash to the backlash, with Chelsea Handler, for example, being attacked in turn for her tweet attacking Mrs. Trump’s spikes. 
  
 Not to mention some partisan crowing about the sneakers. 
  
 Look at that - Melania in Jeans/Sneakers - Fake News Strikes Out again. Thank you POTUS & FLOTUS for showing support to the people of TX! pic.twitter.com/vqLw727ISy — DARSAVMO (@darsavmo) August 29, 2017 
  
 But to dismiss all this as merely much ado about heels, or an example of the pettiness of our divided electorate, is to ignore the reality of the current conversation around the president — to pretend not to notice how sensitized everyone has become to his unpredictable reactions to major events, and to deny the power of the telling detail to invite applause, condemnation or misinterpretation. 
  
 It is precisely the superficial nature of clothing, the fact that garments are immediately accessible to all, that makes them the go-to stand-in for more nuanced, complicated emotions and issues. 
  
 Mrs. Trump’s heels, after all — they appear to be classic Manolo Blahniks — are redolent of a certain clichéd kind of femininity: decorative, impractical, expensive, elitist (all adjectives often associated with the brand “Trump”). 
  
 That they also are part of the identity the first lady brought to Washington — that her comfort level and ability to walk in exactly the kind of shoes that cause other women, wearing more solid shoes, to wince and crunch their toes in imaginary pain was part of her narrative and image from the start — does not obviate the fact that they have also come to represent her remove, for both good and ill. Women in the capital are generally more associated with sensible pumps than teetering patent leather numbers. 
  
 This Mrs. Trump understands, which is why she changed into a more suitable costume (I use that word deliberately) for her arrival in Corpus Christi, Tex. The problem is that, as first lady, in an environment as fraught as the current one, there is no such thing as offstage. Even boarding a plane becomes a quasi-official moment in which all messaging, spoken or assumed, is mined for meaning. 
  
 Mrs. Trump clearly knows this to a certain extent and has accepted it as an exigency of her job; how else to interpret the Dolce & Gabbana black lace coat and veil she wore to visit the pope on the president’s first foreign tour, or the classic red Dior suit she chose for her arrival in France for Bastille Day? Or the fact that, while hosting Akie Abe, the first lady of Japan, on Mrs. Abe’s visit to Mar-a-Lago, she wore flat sandals for their tour of the Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens? (When in Florida. ...) 
  
 The sharp point of the stilettos is that this kind of proactive analysis needs to be applied as consistently as possible across all public appearances (which, when you are in the White House, is all appearances). 
  
 In Mrs. Trump’s job, as in her husband’s, details matter. Even shoes. Put your best foot forward, and all that. |||||