Commercial Whaling 
  
 The IWC is responsible for setting catch limits for commercial whaling (with the exception of catches set by countries under objection or reservation to the current moratorium - see below). The Commission receives advice on sustainability from its Scientific Committee and this assists it in deciding catch limits, which are then set out in a document called the Schedule to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling (1946). 
  
 In 1982 the IWC decided that there should be a pause in commercial whaling on all whale species and populations (known as 'whale stocks') from the 1985/1986 season onwards. This pause is often referred to as the commercial whaling moratorium, and it remains in place today. 
  
 Commercial Whaling Today 
  
 Norway and Iceland take whales commercially at present, either under objection to the moratorium decision, or under reservation to it. These countries establish their own catch limits but must provide information on their catches and associated scientific data to the Commission. The Russian Federation has also registered an objection to the moratorium decision but does not exercise it. The moratorium is binding on all other members of the IWC. 
  
 Norway takes North Atlantic common minke whales within its Exclusive Economic Zone, and Iceland takes North Atlantic common minke whales and also North Atlantic fin whales, again within its Exclusive Economic Zone. 
  
 A list of commercial catches taken by all nations since the establishment of the moratorium can be accessed here ||||| Image copyright AFP Image caption One of the Sea Shepherd's vessels, the Bob Barker 
  
 Anti-whaling group Sea Shepherd has announced it will not intercept Japanese vessels in the Southern Ocean this season. 
  
 The anti-whaling group's ships have confronted ships off Antarctica each year since 2005. 
  
 Sea Shepherd founder Captain Paul Watson said the group could no longer match Japan's surveillance technology. 
  
 He accused nations including Australia, New Zealand and the US of being "in league" with Japan. 
  
 "Japan is now employing military surveillance to watch Sea Shepherd ship movements in real time by satellite and if they know where our ships are at any given moment, they can easily avoid us," Mr Watson said in a statement. 
  
 He told the Australian Broadcasting Corp: "We do not have their money, we do not have their technology. We are going to have to find an alternative way to deal with them and we will." 
  
 Mr Watson did not detail potential future tactics. 
  
 Despite an international moratorium on whaling since 1985, Japan's fleet sails to the Antarctic in the autumn or winter each year, returning the following spring. 
  
 Image copyright Sea Shepherd Image caption A photo released by Sea Shepherd in January 
  
 Mr Watson said the Sea Shepherd was largely responsible for reducing Japan's annual whaling quota from 1,035 in 2005 to 333 at present. 
  
 'Hostile governments' claim 
  
 In 2014, Australia successfully won a temporary ban on Japanese whaling in the International Court of Justice (ICJ). 
  
 However, Japan resumed whaling a year later, claiming that its fleet had satisfied ICJ requirements about conducting scientific research. 
  
 Australia, New Zealand, the US and other nations have maintained public opposition. In January, Australian Environment Minister Josh Frydenberg said he was "deeply disappointed" that Japan had resumed another whaling season. 
  
 However, the three nations were accused by Mr Watson of having "hostile governments" who did not challenge the programme in any genuine way. 
  
 "We are trying to do the job that Australia, New Zealand, the United States and other nations should be doing, but they are too busy appeasing Japan," he said. 
  
 Mr Frydenberg said: "No country has done more than Australia to try to end Japan's so-called 'scientific' whaling, particularly in the Southern Ocean. 
  
 "The Government has made representations at the highest level in Japan and we are working hard through the International Whaling Commission (IWC) to end any commercial or so-called 'scientific' whaling and promote whale conservation." ||||| (CNN) Sea Shepherd, the environmental group famous for tracking , exposing and occasionally ramming Japanese whalers, says it can no longer compete with them on the high seas. 
  
 In a statement Monday, the group's founder Paul Watson said "Japan is now employing military surveillance to watch Sea Shepherd ship movements in real time by satellite," making it nearly impossible for them to intercept them. 
  
 "We cannot compete with their military grade technology." 
  
 Limited resources 
  
 Last year, Japan's Institute of Cetacean Research -- a government backed organization which engages in whaling -- succeeded in obtaining an injunction against Sea Shepherd in a US court, preventing it from ramming or coming within 500 yards of its ships 
  
 Sea Shepherd is headquartered in Amsterdam, with offices in more than 20 countries around the world. 
  
 The carcass of a minke whale is seen on a ship. In January, Sea Shepherd said it caught Japanese poachers trying to cover up the whale. 
  
 Sea Shepherd's Australian branch maintain that the US court ruling has no jurisdiction in Australian waters and vowed to continue in its fight to expose Japanese whalers, which the group says break international law. In January its ship Ocean Warrior caught a Japanese vessel with a dead whale on board in an Australian whale sanctuary in the Southern Ocean. 
  
 But Watson said the combination of surveillance techniques, the passage of new anti-terrorism laws "specifically designed to condemn Sea Shepherd tactics," and a threat by Japan to send military vessels to defend whalers was too much. 
  
 "The decision we have had to face is: do we spend our limited resources on another campaign to the Southern Ocean that will have little chance of a successful intervention or do we regroup with different strategies and tactics?" 
  
 Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the ICR did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
  
 A mink whale is unloaded during the first day of the research whaling at Kushiro Port on September 6, 2013 in Hokkaido, Japan. 
  
 Illegal whaling 
  
 In the statement, Watson called on the Australian government to step up to police its waters in the Southern Ocean, where Sea Shepherd and other groups say Japanese whalers are operating illegally. 
  
 "Instead of supporting Sea Shepherd the Australian government has been supporting the Japanese whalers by harassing Sea Shepherd and obstructing Sea Shepherd's ability to raise funds by denying our charitable status," Watson said. 
  
 Under Australian law , "it is illegal to kill, injure or interfere with cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises) in Australian waters." 
  
 Japan has previously justified its whaling on an exemption in international law which allows the animals to be killed for scientific purposes, but Australia won a 2014 case at the International Court of Justice which ruled against the Japanese program in the Southern Ocean. 
  
 After the ruling however, Japan announced new research program, under which it would kill up to 333 Antarctic minke whales each year. The country's Ministry of Fisheries said the program is necessary to study the best methods of managing minke populations. 
  
 In January, Australia said it was "deeply disappointed" by Japan's decision to keep whaling and reiterated its opposition to "all forms of commercial and so-called 'scientific' whaling." 
  
 Australia's Department for Environment and Energy did not immediately respond to a request for comment regarding Sea Shepherd's statement. 
  
 JUST WATCHED 1800s whaling ships found in the Arctic Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 1800s whaling ships found in the Arctic 01:29 
  
 Commercial hunting 
  
 While the group will suspend its most well known tactic -- Watson's hunting of Japanese whalers was featured in the hit Animal Planet show "Whale Wars" -- Sea Shepherd said it would continue its efforts "to go after and shut down whalers." 
  
 "The Japanese whalers have been exposed, humiliated and most importantly have been denied thousands of lives that we have spared from their deadly harpoons," Watson said. 
  
 "Thousands of whales are now swimming and reproducing, that would now be dead if not for our interventions." 
  
 However, despite intense international opposition to Japanese whaling, and polls showing few Japanese still regularly consume whale meat , the industry does appear to be weathering the storm. 
  
 As well as Sea Shepherd's retreat, Japan recently passed new legislation critics say opens the door to a potential resumption of commercial whaling. |||||