Jeff Hassler, Rhys Webb, Dan Evans and Sam Underhill got the four tries on the board with nearly half an hour left, Dan Biggar converting three.
Hallam Amos scored two fine tries for the home side and Carl Meyer's score gave the Dragons late hope.
But the Ospreys deserved to hold on for the win.
The Ospreys started brightly after their poor showing against the Scarlets, and Canadian wing Hassler, a late call-up, took advantage of an overlap to score after four minutes.
But the Dragons hit back five minutes later when Carl Meyer and Tyler Morgan combined to send Amos racing over for a fifth try in four league games.
They paid the price for giving away too many penalties when Wales star Webb scrambled over for Biggar to convert, while Rynard Landman was sin-binned after repeated infringements.
Carl Meyer's long-distance penalty from just inside his own half kept the home side in it, but the visitors seized the advantage just before the break.
Evans went over on the outside in the final move of the half, Biggar's conversion making it 19-8 at the break.
Amos scored with a superb kick and chase, his fourth try in six days, to keep the Dragons in contention, but the Ospreys had the bonus point wrapped up after 51 minutes when man-of-the-match Underhill crashed over and Biggar converted.
However, the Dragons set up another grandstand finish, Amos turning provider for Carl Meyer to burst through and convert his own try after 67 minutes.
But the Ospreys defence held out and the result means the visitors retain their outside hopes of Champions Cup qualification.
The Dragons suffered their seventh straight defeat going into their Challenge Cup quarter-final at Gloucester, with some home supporters booing when they saw shots of their coaching team on the big screen during the second half.
Dragons: Carl Meyer, Adam Hughes, Tyler Morgan, Adam Warren, Hallam Amos, Dorian Jones, Sarel Pretorius; Phil Price, Elliot Dee, Brok Harris, Rynard Landman, Matthew Screech, Lewis Evans, Nic Cudd, Taulupe Faletau (capt).
Replacements: Thomas Rhys Thomas, Boris Stankovich, Lloyd Fairbrother, Nick Crosswell, Ed Jackson, Charlie Davies, Geraint Rhys Jones, Nick Scott
Ospreys: Dan Evans; Hanno Dirksen, Owen Watkin, Josh Matavesi, Jeff Hassler; Dan Biggar, Rhys Webb (Capt); Nicky Smith, Scott Baldwin, Dmitri Arhip, Adam Beard, Rynier Bernardo, Olly Cracknell, Sam Underhill, Joe Bearman
Replacements: Scott Otten, Gareth Thomas, Aaron Jarvis, Dan Lydiate, Rory Thornton, Brendon Leonard, Sam Davies, Jonathan Spratt
Referee: John Lacey (Ireland)
Assistant referees: Craig Evans, Sean Brickell (both Wales)
Citing commissioner: Jeff Mark (Wales)
TMO: Paul Adams (Wales)