Rumours that the band would return to Worthy Farm began to circulate on Wednesday, when the band's logo appeared near the Pyramid stage.
Eagle-eyed fans saw two men painting the "angry bear" symbol onto the grass via the BBC's Glastonbury webcam.
The festival confirmed the news on Thursday afternoon, posting a photo of the logo on its official Twitter page.
"YES! Radiohead will be back at Worthy Farm and we really can't wait," wrote organiser Emily Eavis on Instagram.
The band will play the opening night of the festival on 23 June, 2017 - marking their first UK festival appearance since 2011, when they played a "secret set" on Glastonbury's small, outlying Park Stage.
Other headliners have yet to be confirmed, although The Stone Roses, Foo Fighters and Lady Gaga have all been rumoured.
French dance duo Daft Punk were also through to be in the running, but organiser Eavis recently shot that one down, telling fans: "As ever, 99% of the rumours are untrue!"
Earlier this week, rock band Kings of Leon also told the BBC they were keen to return to the Pyramid stage.
"We love Glastonbury. I think that was the first festival we ever played in Europe," said drummer Nathan Followill, before asking: "Do they still do it where it's on one year, off one year to let the grass grow?"
On being told that the next fallow year was 2018, he replied: "OK, then we'll have to get on it in 2017. I'll have to text Mr Eavis."
I've grown up with Radiohead and they're about as good as it gets for me. They're just in a league of their own aren't they? Some of my happiest memories at the festival have been watching them play, from headlining in the rain 20 years ago when I was a teenager, to surprise sets in The Park and DJ'ing late night in Shangri-La. We are beyond excited that they're finally coming back to the Pyramid, it's incredibly special for everyone here.
Radiohead have headlined Glastonbury twice before, in 1997 and 2003 (you can still watch the former on BBC iPlayer). Guitarist Ed O'Brien recently told BBC 6 Music he would "love to" reprise the experience.
"I go to Glastonbury every year, it's my carnival," he told Matt Everitt's First Time programme.
"To be asked to play at Glastonbury again would be magic. I also think Glastonbury is like our spiritual home. It is the mother of all festivals... there's nothing like that one... it would be great to play there."
The band, whose ninth album A Moon Shaped Pool went to number one earlier this year, have recently played a handful of international festivals, including Primavera, Summer Solstice and Lollapalooza, but their only UK dates in 2016 were held at London's 1,700-capacity Roundhouse.
Coincidentally, their symbol was co-designed by artist Stanley Donwood, who creates all of Glastonbury's posters and logos.
The 2017 festival has already sold out, but there will be a resale of any returned tickets in the spring.
Follow us on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, on Instagram at bbcnewsents, or if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.