6 years ago 
  
 Florence, South Carolina (CNN) - Newt Gingrich is urging competitors Rick Santorum and Rick Perry bow out of the Republican presidential race so conservatives can rally behind one "anti-Mitt Romney" candidate. 
  
 A reporter asked the former House speaker if the former Pennsylvania senator should drop out of the race. "Well I would be delighted if he decided to endorse me," Gingrich said, but added it was Santorum and Perry's decision to make. 
  
 Tune in Thursday at 8 p.m. ET for the CNN/Southern Republican Presidential Debate hosted by John King and follow it on Twitter at #CNNDebate. For real-time coverage of the South Carolina primary, go to CNNPolitics.com and on the CNN apps for iPhone, iPad, Android or other phones. 
  
  
  
  
  
 – Follow the Ticker on Twitter: @PoliticalTicker 
  
 "So I am respectful that Rick has every right to run as long as he feels that's what he should do, but from the stand point of the conservative movement, consolidating into a Gingrich candidacy would in fact virtually guarantee a victory on Saturday," Gingrich said in Florence Tuesday. "And I'd be delighted if either Perry or Santorum wanted to do that." 
  
 Gingrich has acknowledged he needs to win South Carolina's primary in order to stay in the race. He is also acutely aware that someone needs to beat the frontrunner on January 21 or the nomination will be locked in for Romney. 
  
 Santorum came in a close second in Iowa and eked out a fourth place finish – ahead of Gingrich – in New Hampshire, so he isn't ready to concede just yet. After the debate, he dismissed the former speaker's claim that a vote for him is essentially a vote for Romney. 
  
 "I'm a friend of Newt's, he's a good man, but the idea that someone who is 0 and 2 in races is that I am hurting him. Yeah I'm hurting him. I'm beating him. That's the difference," said Santorum. 
  
 Boosted by another strong debate performance in Myrtle Beach Monday night, Gingrich spent the day at multiple events in Florence and Columbia trying to convince voters he is the best GOP candidate to go up against President Barack Obama in the general election. 
  
 "I think I'm the only conservative, if you look at the polling, I am the only conservative who realistically has a chance to be the nominee," he said at a town hall in Florence. "So any vote toward Perry or Santorum in effect is a vote to allow Romney to become the nominee. Because we have got to bring conservatives together." 
  
 The former speaker said the reason conservatives should coalesce around him and not Santorum is because he knows how to design a national campaign. 
  
 "I actually know how to set up a conservative alternative to Obama in a way that will be very, very effective and very strategic. And I don't think Santorum can do any of that. Again, it's not because he isn't a nice guy. He doesn't have any of the knowledge for how to do something like this." 
  
 Santorum defended his campaign prowess Tuesday night, arguing his wins over Gingrich in the early voting states speak for themselves. 
  
 – Follow Shawna Shepherd on Twitter: @ShepherdCNN. 
  
  
  
 Huckabee clarifies role in new Romney ad 
  
 Pro-Romney group leads 2012 super PAC spending blitz 
  
 Romney says his effective tax rate is 15% ||||| Newt Gingrich suggested today that Rick Santorum and Rick Perry should unite behind his campaign to ensure a non-Romney South Carolina winner, per CNN: 
  
 "So I am respectful that Rick has every right to run as long as he feels that's what he should do, but from the standpoint of the conservative movement, consolidating into a Gingrich candidacy would in fact virtually guarantee a victory on Saturday," Gingrich said in Florence Tuesday. "And I'd be delighted if either Perry or Santorum wanted to do that." 
  
 Gingrich isn't the only one suggesting that social conservatives unite around one candidate to put up a strong challenge against Romney — a group of social conservative leaders met last weekend to have the same conversation. But they voted overwhelmingly to back Santorum, not Gingrich — and despite the fact that Gingrich is currently leading Santorum in the polls, it's unlikely that either Santorum or Perry will bow to Gingrich's suggestion. 
  
 Read more about: Newt Gingrich, Rick Perry, South Carolina, Rick Santorum ||||| (Photo credit: AP) 
  
 The group of social conservative leaders meeting in Texas this weekend has thrown their support behind Rick Santorum, giving the GOP hopeful a much-needed boost a week before the pivotal South Carolina primary. 
  
  
  
 In a conference call this afternoon, Family Research Council chief Tony Perkins said that on the third ballot Santorum won a solid majority of votes from the movement conservatives gathered at a private ranch near Houston. 
  
 Of 114 votes cast, Santorum won 85. Newt Gingrich took the remainder. 
  
 In a remarkable slap in his home state, Rick Perry didn't even make it past the first ballot, Perkins said. 
  
 Santorum backers were already taking to Twitter in the moments after Perkins announced the decision to tout the news. The former Pennsylvania senator, largely absent from the political conversation since finishing well behind Mitt Romney in New Hampshire and staying out of the Bain debate, is badly in need of a lift. In that sense, the endorsement is well-timed. 
  
 "It's a validator that people who have been out there, in the fields laboring for the conservative cause, see us as someone who can not only stand and fight for the causes, but effectively fight and win.," Santorum told reporters at his Mt Pleasant, S.C., headquarters. 
  
 But he refrained from calling on any of his rivals to drop out and help unite conservatives. 
  
 "That's up to them," he said. "They're going to make that decision." 
  
 But the longer all three candidates stay in the race, the more difficult it will be to stop Romney. 
  
 Indeed, the decision of such conservative movers as Perkins, Gary Bauer and James Dobson to wait until the week before the South Carolina primary to make a collective endorsement appears more than a little tardy. 
  
 The move to coalesce behind one social conservative alternative would have been more valuable a month ago — before Romney had already won the first two states and was in the lead in both South Carolina and Florida. 
  
 Perkins acknowledged that there was some discussion at the beginning of the meeting — attended by about 150 people at the home of Paul and Nancy Pressler — that they were moving late. 
  
 But he insisted that now is "exactly the right time going into South Carolina," and noted that few delegates had been allocated. 
  
 Gingrich supporters began grumbling late Saturday afternoon that the previous votes had been much closer and that the reason there were only 114 votes cast at an event attended by about 150 people was because some of their supporters had already left before the third and final ballot. 
  
 "How did the story become 100% consensus?" asked one attendee, noting that the second ballot showed Santorum defeating Gingrich 59%-41%. “The impression being fed to the media is not an honest assessment of the conservative evangelical meeting at Pressler Ranch that I attended. Was there a separate meeting I missed?” 
  
 In Columbia, S.C., Gingrich emphasized his strong showing before the final round of balloting. 
  
 "I was told that we got a very, very substantial vote on the first round," Gingrich told reporters. "And I'm delighted that we got a very good vote." 
  
 In an interview, Bauer, a Santorum backer, confirmed that the previous balloting had Gingrich closer to Santorum and that most of those present were supportive of one of the two men. 
  
 Bauer said they wanted to hold a third and final vote to show something close to unity behind Santorum. 
  
 “Toward the end a number of folks — Dobson, Perkins, myself — made the case that when somebody is consistently willing to fight for your values, which [Santorum] was willing to do in the Senate and you don’t come along side of them when they venture into the presidential arena that you run the risk of sending a terrible message to people that if you spend time on cultural issues, you won’t even get the support of people who say they care about those issues,” Bauer said. 
  
 It’s unclear how the various individuals and groups represented at the conclave will act on their endorsement. Perkins said he couldn't speak to that and only urged reporters to watch the next 24 hours for news on this front. 
  
 But POLITICO has learned that Dobson will come out and make a public endorsement of Santorum in the coming days. And Bauer said he would make an aggressive push by calling into South Carolina Christian radio stations this week. 
  
 The media attention given to the nod by itself offers Santorum a boost at a moment when South Carolina polls show him slipping behind Gingrich. 
  
 In this sense, the endorsement is akin to the second look he got in Iowa after the Christmastime endorsement by social conservative leader Bob Vander Plaats. In this case, it was Bauer who came out strongly for Santorum ahead of the Texas meeting, then attended to line up support for the former senator, pushing attendees to get behind him before and between ballots. 
  
 But the key question in the week before the Jan. 21 primary is whether Santorum capitalizes on the endorsement by making a more aggressive, focused case that he's the only conservative who can defeat Romney. 
  
 After his Iowa near-win, Santorum had a difficult time in New Hampshire breaking through the clutter inherent to a multi-candidate field, getting lured into an extended colloquy with a young student over gay marriage on one much-discussed occasion. 
  
 As important as whether the Pennsylvanian can take advantage of the support is whether groups like Perkins' Family Research Council and Dobson's former group Focus on the Family will make the case for Santorum in South Carolina via TV, radio, direct mail and mass emails. A spokesperson for Focus on the Family said Dobson was not acting on behalf of the group he founded and that they were not making any endorsement in the race. 
  
 With the millions being spent on Palmetto State airwaves, it's becoming increasingly tough to penetrate there. 
  
 Asked after the call if the individuals and groups involved in the endorsement today will put their voices and checkbooks behind Santorum, Family Research Council spokesman J.P. Duffy said: "Over the next two or three days, you can expect to see statements from individual leaders that will go into some of that." 
  
 Perkins also indicated that there would be no effort to nudge Gingrich and Perry out of the race — something seen as increasingly critical to preempt another fractured vote scenario a la 2008. 
  
 "That was not even part of the discussion," Perkins said. 
  
  
  
 But he did make the case that, despite the claims of some like Bauer, the point of the gathering was very much to find a Romney alternative. 
  
 "It was already known that when folks arrived here that Romney was not the candidate," Perkins said. "If he were there would have been no reason for this meeting." 
  
 He said that Gingrich had passionate supporters, even on the final ballot, but suggested the group had doubts about Perry's electability. 
  
 "There was some concern because of the stumbles he had in the race may be too hard to overcome," said Perkins of the Texan, noting that many of the same participants this weekend had attended a similar conclave on Perry's behalf this past summer. |||||