Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption The whereabouts of Nefertiti's remains are still a mystery 
  
 An archaeologist says he may have found evidence that Nefertiti, the former Queen of Egypt, is secretly buried inside Tutankhamun's tomb. 
  
 The whereabouts of Nefertiti's remains are not known, although those of Tutankhamun - who may have been her son - were found in 1922. 
  
 New tests have shown there may be a portal leading from King Tut's tomb. 
  
 Nicholas Reeves, an archaeologist at the University of Arizona, says he believes Nefertiti may lie inside. 
  
 One leading Egyptologist urged caution over the conclusion but said that, if confirmed, it would be "brilliant". 
  
 The finds were made last year, after the Spanish artistic and preservation specialists, Factum Arte, were commissioned to produce detailed scans of Tutankhamun's tomb. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's Rajan Datar has been inside the replica tomb of Egyptian pharaoh Tutankhamun 
  
 The scans were then used to produce a facsimile of the tomb near the site of the original Valley of the Kings in Luxor. 
  
 While assessing the scans last February, Dr Reeves spotted what he believed were marks indicating where two doorways used to be. 
  
 "I have been testing the evidence ever since, looking for indications that what I thought I was seeing was, in fact, not there," Dr Reeves told the BBC. 
  
 "But the more I looked, the more information I found that I seemed to be looking at something pretty real." 
  
 The layout of Tutankhamun's tomb has been a puzzle for some time - in particular, why it was smaller than those of other kings' tombs. 
  
 Dr Reeves believes there are clues in the design of the tomb that indicate it was designed to store the remains of a queen, not a king. 
  
 "If I'm wrong, I'm wrong," he said. "But if I'm right, the prospects are frankly staggering. The world will have become a much more interesting place - at least for Egyptologists." 
  
 Image copyright Hulton Archive/Getty Images Image caption The tomb of Tutankhamun was almost intact when it was opened in 1923 
  
 After being discovered by English archaeologist Howard Carter in 1922, the tomb of Tutankhamun was opened in February the following year. 
  
 It was the most intact Egyptian tomb ever discovered, and very few objects appeared to have been plundered. 
  
 Close to 2,000 objects were found, and it took archaeologists nine years to catalogue them all. 
  
 If the same amount of objects were found elsewhere in the tomb, it would represent "quite a coup," said Dr Reeves. 
  
 Neither Egyptian authorities nor Factum Arte have responded to the claims. 
  
 "I think there are certainly some signs that there might have been some activity around those doorways," said Joyce Tyldesley, an Egyptologist with the University of Manchester. 
  
 "Whether we can deduct from that that we actually the burial site of Nefertiti might be a step too far. 
  
 "But if it was true, it would be absolutely brilliant." ||||| NOTHING has inspired generations of archaeologists like the discovery in 1922 of the treasure-packed tomb of Tutankhamun. What if another untouched Egyptian trove lies buried, not in a distant patch of desert, nor even nearby amid the overlapping tomb-shafts of Luxor’s Valley of the Kings, but instead just a millimetre’s distance from plain view? 
  
 This is the dramatic hypothesis of a just-published paper by Nicholas Reeves, a British Egyptologist who co-discovered an undisturbed Egyptian tomb in 2000, and who is at the University of Arizona. His key evidence is disarmingly simple, and in fact free to see on the internet in the form of photographs published by Factum Arte, a Madrid- and Bologna-based specialist in art replication that recently created a spectacular, life-sized facsimile of Tutankhamun’s tomb, intended for tourists to visit without endangering the original. 
  
 Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 What Mr Reeves found in these ultra-high-resolution images, which reveal the texture of walls beneath layers of paint in the original tomb, was a number of fissures and cracks that suggest the presence of two passages that were blocked and plastered to conceal their existence. (See image, with proposed new areas in yellow.) One of these would probably lead to a storeroom; its position and small size mirror that of an already-uncovered storeroom inside the multi-chambered tomb. The other, bigger possible doorway in the north wall of Tutankhamun’s burial chamber suggests something much more exciting. 
  
 There are several oddities about Tutankhamun’s tomb. It is small compared with others in the valley. The objects found in it, while magnificent, seemed hurriedly placed and were found to be largely second-hand; even the boy-king’s famous gilded funerary mask sports the strangely unmanly feature of pierced ears. The tomb’s main axis is angled to the right of the entrance shaft, an arrangement typical of Egyptian queens rather than kings. 
  
 Noting that the bigger of the two doorways he may have located aligns perfectly with both sides of the tomb’s entrance chamber, Mr Reeves thinks it could conceal a corridor continuing along the same axis, in the scale and shape of other nearby royal tombs. All this, as well as evidence that the tomb’s decoration and construction were executed at different stages, leads him to conclude that this corridor would lead to the burial chamber of a queen, or perhaps several princesses. 
  
 Among the tombs and royal mummies that archaeologists have identified from Tutankhamun’s dynasty, Ancient Egypt’s 18th, there remains one gaping absence. Nefertiti, the wife of Tutankhamun’s father Akhenaten, was not only a famed beauty, as the world knows from her famous bust in Berlin. Her titles indicate that she served as co-regent and possibly also as a pharaoh in her own right after Akhenaten’s death, meaning Nefertiti’s tomb and its contents would be every bit as magnificent as her stepson’s. Indeed, if Mr Reeves is right, what Tutankhamun got was her leftovers; even his face mask might originally have been intended for the queen. 
  
 Egyptologists are habitually reticent about each other’s work, and will no doubt wait to embrace this especially bold claim, but Mr Reeves’s paper has already aroused keen interest. “It’s a fascinating argument and an impressive first step,” says Kent Weeks, an American archaeologist who has minutely mapped the Valley of the Kings and in 1995 discovered the extent of its biggest known tomb. Mr Reeves’s theory would be simple to test using non-invasive techniques, says Mr Weeks. A radar scan, for a start, would quickly reveal any hollows. 
  
 Impatient as he is to find out, Mr Reeves understands the difficulties. He credits Egypt’s antiquities authorities for commissioning the detailed photography that bolsters his theory, and is confident they will take a careful, consultative approach to test it. If the doorways do exist, modern archaeology will require a team of experts to work out how to enter them, and more delicate tools than the picks and shovels used by Howard Carter when he discovered Tutankhamun’s tomb. 
  
 “Each piece of evidence on its own is not conclusive, but put it all together and it’s hard to avoid my conclusion.” So says Mr Reeves before adding reflectively, “If I’m wrong I’m wrong, but if I’m right this is potentially the biggest archaeological discovery ever made.” |||||