In this video grab taken Thursday July 14, 2016, a policeman chase people out of the cordoned-off area after a truck drove on to the sidewalk and plowed through a crowd of revelers who’d gathered to watch... (Associated Press) 
  
 NICE, France (AP) — A large truck plowed through revelers gathered for Bastille Day fireworks in Nice, killing at least 84 people and sending others fleeing into the sea as it bore down for more than a mile along the Riviera city's famed waterfront promenade. 
  
 The driver was killed by police and no one immediately claimed responsibility for the Thursday night attack on France's national holiday, which rocked a nation still dealing with the aftermath of two attacks in Paris last year that killed a total of 147 people. 
  
 "Terrorism is a threat that weighs heavily upon France and will continue to weigh for a long time," Prime Minister Manuel Valls said after an emergency government meeting Friday. "We are facing a war that terrorism has brought to us. The goal of terrorists is to instill fear and panic. And France is a great country, and a great democracy that will not allow itself to be destabilized." 
  
 The truck plowed into the crowd over a distance of two kilometers (about 1.2 miles), a lawmaker said, and broadcast footage showed a scene of horror up and down the promenade, with broken bodies splayed on the asphalt, some piled near one another, others bleeding onto the roadway or twisted into unnatural shapes. 
  
 Some tried to escape into the water, Eric Ciotti, a lawmaker for the region that includes Nice said Friday, giving new details of the horrifying last minutes of the attack. 
  
 "A person jumped onto the truck to try to stop it," Ciotti told Europe 1 radio. "It's at that moment that the police were able to neutralize this terrorist. I won't forget the look of this policewoman who intercepted the killer." 
  
 Wassim Bouhlel, a Nice native, told The Associated Press that he saw a truck drive into the crowd. "There was carnage on the road," he said. "Bodies everywhere." He said the driver emerged with a gun and started shooting. 
  
 The regional president, Christian Estrosi, told BFM TV that "the driver fired on the crowd, according to the police who killed him." He said more than 10 children were among the dead. 
  
 Flags were lowered to half-staff in Nice and in Paris, and Hollande extended the state of emergency imposed after the November bloodshed another three months. The government declared three days of national mourning to begin Saturday. 
  
 Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, who traveled to the scene, said police were trying to identify the driver. Ciotti said identification papers were found in the truck and that investigators were trying to determine whether they were legitimate. 
  
 Partiers in summer apparel ran for their lives down Nice's palm-tree-lined Promenade des Anglais, the famous seaside boulevard named for the English aristocrats who proposed its construction in the 19th century. 
  
 "France was struck on the day of its national holiday, July 14, the symbol of liberty," Hollande said early Friday, denouncing "this monstrosity" — a truck bearing down on citizens "with the intention of killing, smashing and massacring ... an absolute violence." 
  
 Hollande said it was not immediately clear whether the driver had accomplices. The Paris prosecutor's office opened an investigation for "murder and attempted murder in an organized group linked to a terrorist enterprise." 
  
 Estrosi said some of the city's 1,200 security cameras had pinpointed the moment the attacker boarded the truck, far from the seaside "in the hills of Nice" and could follow his path to the promenade. Estrosi called for the investigation to focus on any accomplices. 
  
 "Attacks aren't prepared alone. Attacks are prepared with accomplices," Estrosi said. "There is a chain of complicity. I expect it to be unveiled, discovered and kept up to date." 
  
 Hollande called a defense council meeting Friday with key ministers, and will head to Nice after that. 
  
 Cazeneuve said "we are in a war with terrorists who want to strike us at any price and in a very violent way." 
  
 France has lived with soldiers in the streets since the November attacks, and much of the country was under intense security during the month-long European football championships, which ended July 10 without incident. 
  
 Video footage showed men and women — one or two pushing strollers — racing to get away from the scene. Photos showed a truck with around 20 bullet holes. 
  
 Writing online, Nice Matin journalist Damien Allemand, who was at the waterside, said the fireworks display had finished and the crowd had got up to leave when they heard a noise and cries. 
  
 "A fraction of a second later, an enormous white truck came along at a crazy speed, turning the wheel to mow down the maximum number of people," he said. "I saw bodies flying like bowling pins along its route. Heard noises, cries that I will never forget." 
  
 On video footage, one person could be heard yelling, "Help my mother, please!" A pink girl's bicycle was overturned by the side of the road. 
  
 Hollande announced a series of measures to bolster security. Besides continuing the state of emergency and the Sentinel operation with 10,000 soldiers on patrol, he said he was calling up "operational reserves," those who have served in the past and will be brought in to help police, particularly at French borders. 
  
 He reiterated that France is also bolstering its presence in Iraq and Syria, where he said earlier that military advisers would be on the ground to help Iraqis take back the Islamic State stronghold of Mosul. 
  
 President Barack Obama condemned what he said "appears to be a horrific terrorist attack." 
  
 European Council president Donald Tusk said it was a "tragic paradox" that the victims of the attack in Nice were celebrating "liberty, equality and fraternity" — France's motto — on the country's national day. 
  
 France has long known it is a top target for the Islamic State group. In September 2014, then-spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani referred to "the filthy French" in a statement telling Muslims within the country to attack them in any way they could, including "crush them with your car." 
  
 France has been not only a prime target for Islamic State, but has seen more young Muslims head to join extremists than any other European nation. And Nice has been at the center of the movement, home to one of the most prolific creators of jihadi recruiting videos for the French-speaking world, a former petty drug dealer named Omar Omsen who is now fighting in Syria. 
  
 The Islamic State group carried out the November 2015 attacks, sending a group of largely French-speaking men to strike at France's national stadium, bars and cafes and the Bataclan concert venue. In March, the same Islamic State cell struck in Belgium. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Ganley reported from Paris. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writers Raphael Satter in Paris, Naomi Koppel in London, Lori Hinnant in Perigueux, France, and Josh Replogle in Miami contributed. ||||| NICE, France (Reuters) - French authorities were trying to determine on Friday whether a Tunisian who killed at least 84 people by plowing a truck into Bastille Day crowds had acted alone or with accomplices, but said the attack bore the hallmarks of Islamist militants. 
  
 Thursday night’s attack in the Riviera city of Nice plunged France into new grief and fear just eight months after gunmen killed 130 people in Paris. Those attacks, and one in Brussels four months ago, shocked Western Europe, already anxious over security challenges from mass immigration, open borders and pockets of Islamist radicalism. 
  
 The truck zigzagged along the city’s seafront Promenade des Anglais as a fireworks display marking the French national day ended. It careered into families and friends listening to an orchestra or strolling above the Mediterranean beach towards the century-old grand Hotel Negresco. 
  
 At least 10 children were among the dead. Of the scores of injured, 25 were on life support, authorities said on Friday. 
  
 Witness Franck Sidoli said he had watched people mown down before the truck finally stopped just five meters away from him. 
  
 “A woman was there, she lost her son. Her son was on the ground, bleeding,” he told Reuters at the scene. 
  
 The driver, 31-year-old Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, was shot dead by officers at the scene. He was known to police for petty crimes but was not on a watch list of suspected militants. He had one criminal conviction, for road rage, and was sentenced to probation three months ago for throwing a wooden pallet at another driver. 
  
 The investigation “will try to determine whether he benefited from accomplices,” Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. “It will also try to find out whether Mohamed Laouaiej Bouhlel had ties to Islamist terrorist organizations.” 
  
 “Although yesterday’s attack has not been claimed, this sort of thing fits in perfectly with calls for murder from such terrorist organizations,” Molins added. 
  
 Bouhlel’s ex-wife was in police custody, Molins said. He had three children. Police found one pistol and various fake weapons in his truck. 
  
 French Prime Minister Manuel Valls told the evening news that Bouhlel was “one way or another” linked to radical Islam. “Yes, it is a terrorist act and we shall see what links there are with terrorist organizations.” 
  
 Yet despite numerous French officials from President Francois Hollande down describing it as a terrorist attack, by nightfall on Friday officials still had not disclosed any direct evidence linking Bouhlel with extremists. 
  
 Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, asked if he could confirm the attacker’s motives were linked to jihadism, said: “No. ... We have an individual who was not known to intelligence services for activities linked to jihadism.” 
  
 A U.S. official familiar with Washington’s assessment said the attack was thought to have been carried out by a “lone wolf” inspired but not directed by Islamic State. 
  
 The former top terrorism investigator for the French judicial system said that while the attack fits the profile of the kind undertaken by militant groups, the available evidence suggests the attacker had no evident connection with militant organizations or ideology. 
  
 Jean-Louis Bruguiere, formerly the top Paris-based investigative magistrate handling terrorism-related cases, told Reuters no French or European intelligence or security agency had any trace on the suspect and no evidence has surfaced to connect him to any militant group or other suspects or even to casual contact with militant literature or propaganda. 
  
 He said so far there is no evidence Bouhlel had any association with any religious group or faction but that there was evidence he was estranged from his family and going through some kind of divorce. 
  
 DRIED BLOOD, SMASHED STROLLERS 
  
 Dawn broke on Friday with pavements smeared with dried blood. Smashed strollers, an uneaten baguette and other debris were strewn about. Small areas were screened off and what appeared to be bodies covered in blankets were visible. 
  
 The truck was still where it had come to rest, its windscreen riddled with bullets. 
  
 “I saw this enormous white truck go past at top speed,” said Suzy Wargniez, 65, who had watched from a cafe on the promenade. 
  
 At Nice’s Pasteur hospital, medical staff were treating large numbers of injured. Waiting for friends being operated on was 20-year-old Fanny. 
  
 “The truck pushed me to the side. When I opened my eyes I saw faces I didn’t know and started asking for help,” she told Reuters. “Some of my friends were not so lucky. They are having operations as we speak.” 
  
 Neighbors in the neighborhood in northern Nice where Bouhlel lived described him as handsome but an unsettling presence. 
  
 “I would say he was someone who was pleasing to women,” said neighbor Hanan, standing in the lobby of the apartment building where Bouhlel lived. “But he was frightening. He didn’t have a frightening face, but ... a look. He would stare at the children a lot.” 
  
 Bouhlel’s Tunisian home town Msaken is about 10 km (six miles) outside the coastal city of Sousse, where a gunman killed 38 people, mostly British holidaymakers, on a beach a year ago. Many people from the area have moved to France, including Nice, and money they send back has made it comparatively prosperous. 
  
 A former neighbor in Msaken told Reuters Bouhlel had left for France in 2005 after getting married, and had worked as a driver. 
  
 Relatives and neighbors in Msaken said Bouhlel was sporty and had shown no sign of being radicalized, including when he last returned for the wedding of a sister four years ago. 
  
 A nephew, Ibrahim, said he had called three days ago saying he was preparing a trip back for a family party. Bouhlel’s brother, Jabeur, said he doubted his sibling was the attacker. 
  
 “Why would my brother do something like this?” he told Reuters, adding: “We’ve been calling him since yesterday evening but he’s not responding.” 
  
 Investigators continue to work at the scene near the heavy truck that ran into a crowd at high speed killing scores who were celebrating the Bastille Day July 14 national holiday on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France, July 15, 2016. REUTERS/Eric Gaillard 
  
 GRITTY METROPOLIS 
  
 Nice, a city of 350,000, has a history as a flamboyant aristocratic resort but is also a gritty metropolis, where Islamist radicalism has brewed, away from the scenic streets of its old town. It and the surrounding Alpes-Maritimes region, with a population of just over a million, are thought to have produced as many as 10 percent of the French citizens who have traveled to wage jihad in the Middle East. 
  
 After Thursday’s attack, a state of emergency imposed across France after the November attacks in Paris was extended by three months and military and police reservists were to be called up. 
  
 “France is filled with sadness by this new tragedy,” Hollande said in a dawn address that called it an act of terrorism. 
  
 Nice-Matin journalist Damien Allemand had been watching the firework display when the truck tore by. After taking cover in a cafe, he wrote on his paper’s website of what he saw: “Bodies every five meters, limbs ... Blood. Groans.” 
  
 “The beach attendants were first on the scene. They brought water for the injured and towels, which they placed on those for whom there was no more hope.” 
  
 Police carried out a controlled explosion on a white van near the home, blowing the doors open and leaving shattered glass all around. It was not clear what they found. 
  
 CRITICISM 
  
 With presidential and parliamentary elections less than a year away, French opposition politicians seized on what they described as security failings that made it possible for the truck to career 2 km (1.5 miles) through large crowds before it was finally halted. 
  
 Christian Estrosi, a security hardliner who was mayor of Nice until last month and is now president of the wider Riviera region, had written on the eve of the attack to Hollande to demand more funding for police. 
  
 “As far as I’m concerned, I demand answers, and not the usual stuff,” Estrosi told BFM TV hours after the attack, questioning whether the government had provided enough national police officers for the fireworks display. 
  
 France is a major part of a U.S.-led mission conducting air strikes and special forces operations against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and has also sent troops to West Africa to battle Islamist insurgents. 
  
 “We will further strengthen our actions in Syria and Iraq,” Hollande said, calling the tragedy - on the day France marks the 1789 revolutionary storming of the Bastille prison in Paris - an attack on liberty by fanatics who despised human rights. 
  
 “We are facing a battle that will be long because facing us is an enemy that wants to continue to strike all people and all countries that have values like ours,” he said. 
  
 France is home to the European Union’s biggest Muslim population, mostly descended from immigrants from North African former colonies. It maintains a secular culture that allows no place for religion in schools and civic life, which supporters say encourages a common French identity but critics say contributes to alienation in some communities. 
  
 The Paris attack in November was the bloodiest among a number in France and Belgium in the past two years. On Sunday, a weary nation had breathed a sigh of relief that the month-long Euro 2016 soccer tournament had ended without serious incident. 
  
 Slideshow (25 Images) 
  
 Four months ago, Belgian Islamists linked to the Paris attackers killed 32 people in Brussels. Recent weeks have also seen major attacks in Bangladesh, Turkey and Iraq. 
  
 U.S. President Barack Obama condemned what he said “appears to be a horrific terrorist attack”. In televised remarks he later said the United States would stand with France and keep up the fight against Islamic State: “We will not be deterred. We will not relent.” 
  
 On social media, Islamic State supporters celebrated the high death toll and posted a series of images, one showing a beach purporting to be that of Nice with white stones arranged to read “IS is here to stay” in Arabic. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Image copyright AP Image caption Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel was an engineering student who had committed petty crimes 
  
 The man who killed 86 people in Nice by driving a lorry through a crowd has been named as a Tunisian delivery man, Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel - not a known jihadist. 
  
 French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said the killer had apparently been radicalised very quickly. 
  
 Lahouaiej-Bouhlel, 31, was identified by his fingerprints after his driver's licence, mobile phone and credit card were found inside the vehicle by police who had shot him dead. 
  
 He had reconnoitred the area in the lorry on the two days before the 14 July Bastille Day attack, when he smashed into the crowd on Nice's famous beachfront, the Promenade des Anglais. 
  
 So-called Islamic State (IS) says he acted in response to its calls to target civilians in countries that are part of the coalition ranged against the group. 
  
 'Far from religion' 
  
 Lahouaiej-Bouhlel was from the north Tunisian town of Msaken, about 10km (6 miles) outside the coastal city of Sousse. 
  
 It has emerged that he had a history of violence and mental instability. 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Police found papers, a mobile phone and credit card inside the lorry 
  
 Neighbours in Nice described him as a violent loner who liked to drink, lift weights and go salsa dancing. 
  
 He lived a life "far from religion", eating pork, taking drugs and indulging in a "wild" sex life, French prosecutor Francois Molins said. 
  
 But he had a "clear and recent interest" in radical Islamist movements, Mr Molins said. 
  
 From 1 July, Lahouaiej-Bouhlel made more or less daily internet searches for verses of the Koran and "nasheeds" - jihadist propaganda chants. He also researched the Islamic holiday of Eid al-Fitr. 
  
 Investigators found photos of dead bodies and images linked to radical Islamism on his computer, including the flag of so-called Islamic State, the cover of an issue of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo - attacked by gunmen in January 2015 - and photos of Osama bin Laden and Algerian jihadist Mokhtar Belmokhtar. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The father of the Nice attacker says Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel had nervous breakdowns 
  
 In the eight days leading up to the attack, he grew a beard and told friends this was for "religious reasons". 
  
 He also told them he did not understand why IS could not hold territory and showed them a video of a beheading on his mobile phone. In response to their shock, he said he was "used to it". 
  
 However, there was no evidence that he had pledged allegiance to any radical groups or had contact with known Islamists. 
  
 'Premeditated and deliberate' 
  
 Examinations of Lahouaiej-Bouhlel's browsing history also showed he had carried out research for his attack. 
  
 On 1 July he searched for details of the Bastille Day celebrations in Nice as well as videos showing "terrible" fatal traffic accidents. 
  
 He had also read about recent attacks in Orlando, where a man proclaiming allegiance to IS shot 49 people in a gay nightclub, Dallas, where a black army veteran shot five police officers, and Magnanville near Paris, where a French jihadist stabbed two police officials to death. 
  
 In the days before the attack, he twice drove to the Promenade des Anglais in his rented lorry, sold his van and attempted to withdraw money, Mr Molins said. 
  
 This showed that his act was "premeditated and deliberate", he said. 
  
 Image copyright PA Image caption Lahouaiej-Bouhlel lived in this apartment block on Route de Turin in Nice 
  
 He reserved the 19-tonne refrigeration lorry on 4 July and collected it on 11 July in Saint-Laurent-du-Var, just west of Nice. 
  
 During his reconnaissance trips, he sent a selfie photo from the driver's cabin. 
  
 Just minutes before launching his attack, he sent text messages asking accomplices to give him more weapons and boasting about having obtained a pistol. He fired that pistol at police during his rampage, before police shot him dead. 
  
 "Bring more weapons, bring five to C," one of the messages said. 
  
 Police are trying to identify who the message was sent to. 
  
 Four men who knew Lahouaiej-Bouhlel are being questioned by police, as are an Albanian couple suspected of having given him logistical help. 
  
 'Quiet loner' 
  
 Police say Lahouaiej-Bouhlel was married with three children, although he no longer lived with his wife. She was detained for questioning by police on 15 July but has since been released. 
  
 A woman who knows the family told the BBC Lahouaiej-Bouhlel had been thrown out of their home in the Le Ray area of Nice more than a year ago after allegedly beating his wife. 
  
 Lahouaiej-Bouhlel last visited Tunisia four years ago, people in his hometown Msaken told the BBC's Rana Jawad. They said many people knew his family and were shocked by his actions. 
  
 "We remember him as a normal person from a wealthy family," a town resident told her. 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The family home in Msaken: He was not a known jihadist in Tunisia 
  
 While many who knew him described Lahouaiej-Bouhlel as being secular, other witnesses pointed out that more recently he had displayed outward signs of becoming more religious. 
  
 A psychiatrist, Chamseddine Hamouda, carried out a mental assessment of the killer a few years ago after his father became concerned about his "troubling behaviour of a psychotic nature". 
  
 "He was a stranger to himself," Mr Hamouda said. "I advised his parents that he needed treatment. 
  
 "At the time he exhibited violent behaviour towards his family... I'm sure that in the past 12 years something else happened that perhaps influenced how he thought." 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Chamseddine Hamouda: "This kind of terrorist act can not be blamed on a mental disorder" 
  
 He was "quiet", a "loner" who did not respond to greetings, according to several neighbours in the four-storey block of flats in the Abattoirs area of Nice where he lived. 
  
 He had a van parked nearby and would often be seen climbing the stairs to his first-floor flat, carrying his bike. 
  
 Anan, who lived on the ground floor, said she had been suspicious of him because he was "a good-looking man who kept giving my two daughters the eye". 
  
 One woman recalled that he had been nice to her and had helped her all the time. But, she added, his behaviour had sometimes been "strange". 
  
 Suspended sentence 
  
 Lahouaiej-Bouhlel had been in trouble with police between 2010 and 2016 for threatening behaviour, violence and petty theft. 
  
 In March, a court in Nice convicted him of assaulting a motorist with an improvised weapon - a wooden pallet - during an altercation. He was given a six-month suspended prison sentence and ordered to contact police once a week, which he did. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A neighbour of the Nice attack suspect says he was frightening and "not normal" 
  
 Lahouaiej-Bouhlel was "never flagged for signs of radicalisation", officials say, and he was not on France's "Fiche S" high-security watch list. 
  
 The majority of attacks carried out in the country since January 2015 have been staged by men designated "Fiche S", and also linked to IS. 
  
 In 2014, IS spokesman Mohammed al-Adnani told supporters in an audio message: "If you can't detonate a bomb or fire a shot, manage by yourself... run them over with your car." 
  
 Many of France's jihadist killers, starting with Mohammed Merah in Toulouse in 2012, also began their journey towards militant Islam as petty criminals. ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. |||||