Alabama death row inmate Jeffrey Lynn Borden, 57, has died of an apparent suicide, according to the state Department of Corrections. 
  
 According to information released Sunday afternoon by the Alabama Department of Corrections (ADOC), Borden was found "hanging by a bed sheet in his cell at approximately 2:30 a.m. during a security check." Borden was pronounced dead at 3 a.m. 
  
 The ADOC statement said Borden's remains had been turned over to the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences. 
  
 John Palombi, a federal defender who'd represented Borden, issued the following statement: "We are saddened to hear of Mr. Borden's apparent suicide. Mr. Borden suffered from severe mental illness and chronic physical pain, both of which were undertreated by the Department of Corrections despite their knowledge of these issues. We hope that the conditions that led to underfunding and understaffing of the Department, and thus contributed to Mr. Borden's death, will be remedied." 
  
 Borden had been on death row since 1995, when he was sentenced for the 1993 murders of Cheryl Borden and Roland Harris. The murders took place at a family gathering in Gardendale on Christmas Eve; according to a summary presented at trial, Borden had traveled from Huntsville to Gardendale to deliver his three children by Cheryl Borden, his legally separate wife. After Cheryl Borden arrived on the scene, Jeffrey Borden shot her in the back of her head outside the house in the presence of the children. Borden then shot Roland Harris, his wife's father, in the back as Harris tried to run into the house. The jury recommended death on a 10-2 vote. 
  
 In August 2017, the office of Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall sought execution dates for Borden and two other inmates, Doyle Lee Hamm and Torrey Twane McNabb. McNabb was executed on Oct. 19; an attempt to execute Hamm if February was called off after difficulties preparing Hamm for lethal injection. Since then, the state has been ordered to release its execution protocol. 
  
 Borden had been scheduled to die Oct. 5. That was postponed after a stay was issued by U.S. District Court Judge Keith Watkins. Watkins lifted that stay in November and in February rejected a request from Borden's attorneys to reinstate it. 
  
 According to ADOC information, as of Sunday Borden had spent 24 years, five months and 4 days in prison. ||||| An inmate on death row in Alabama was found dead inside of his prison cell early on Sunday morning of an apparent suicide, according to the state’s Department of Corrections. 
  
 Jeffrey Lynn Borden, 57, was found "hanging by a bed sheet in his cell at approximately 2:30 a.m. during a security check" on Sunday and pronounced dead at 3 p.m. this afternoon. His body has been turned over to the Alabama Department of Forensic Sciences, according to AL.com. 
  
 As of Sunday, Borden had spent 24 years, five months and 4 days in prison after his murder conviction, according to the state’s Department of Corrections. 
  
 He'd been on death row since 1995 after he was sentenced for the 1993 murders of his estranged wife, Cheryl Borden, and her father, Roland Harris. 
  
 The brutal slayings took place at a family gathering in Gardendale, Ala., on Christmas Eve after Borden had brought the couple’s three children to his in-laws' home. When his estranged wife tried to help their children move some of things from the the car, Borden pulled out a .380 caliber semiautomatic pistol and shot her in the back of the head in front of the children. Borden then proceeded to shoot Harris in the back as he attempted to run into the house, investigators said. 
  
 Both Cheryl Borden and Harris died of their wounds later that evening at a local hospital. 
  
 Borden was scheduled to be executed last October, but, just three hours before he was set to die, U.S. District Court Judge Keith Watkins issued a stay on Borden’s execution – the second one issued that week. Borden was one of a number of death row inmates in a consolidated case in Alabama that claimed the lethal injection method of execution used in the state was unconstitutional and amounted to cruel and unusual punishment. 
  
 In November, Watkins eventually lifted the stay on Borden’s execution and rejected a request this February from Borden’s lawyers to reinstate it. It's unclear if a new date was set for his execution. |||||