These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Bloomberg News 
  
 Jordan won’t choose companies for a $900 million project to desalinate Red Sea water and help rescue the Dead Sea, shrinking by a meter (3.3 feet) a year, until the second half of 2014, a government spokesman said. 
  
 Omar Salameh, spokesperson of the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, said the project is expected to start this year with a plant to be built in the Red Sea port of Aqaba that can produce about 80 million cubic meters of drinking water. 
  
 “The project will provide Jordan with much-needed water, especially as the country is one of the poorest in terms of water in the world,” Salameh said yesterday by phone. 
  
 Brine generated from desalinating the water to be supplied to the Dead Sea as a pilot test has environmental groups calling for further studies. The lowest place on Earth has lost a third of its surface area from drought, agricultural diversion and pumping to extract minerals for fertilizers. 
  
 To contact the reporter on this story: Mohammad Tayseer in Amman, Jordan at mtayseer@bloomberg.net 
  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Randall Hackley at rhackley@bloomberg.net ||||| By Star-Advertiser staff 
  
  
  
 COURTESY U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY Lake Waiau, below the summit of Mauna Kea, has nearly disappeared since 2010. 
  
  
  
 Scientists at the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory say Lake Waiau, the tiny body of water just below Mauna Kea's summit has been shrinking at an alarming rate and has almost disappeared. 
  
 Since 2010, the lake has shrunk from about 1.2 to 1.7 acres to about .03 acres, 2 percent of its normal surface area, according to this week's Volcano Watch article. 
  
 The lake had been about 3 yards deep, but the water level is now less than a foot, meaning the water volume has shrunk to about 1 percent of its 2010 size, according to measurements by former University of Hawaii Hilo professor Donna Delparte. 
  
 Observatory scientists, Office of Mauna Kea Management rangers and state land and wildlife officials have been monitoring the disappearing water. But they are still trying to figure out why the lake is disappearing. 
  
 Scientists say, based on historical photographs and written reports, that a drop of this magnitude hasn't happened in the lake's recorded history. 
  
 Drought may be a factor in the water loss, the Volcano Watch article said. 
  
 "The Mauna Kea visitor center weather station shows very little precipitation for several consecutive months in early 2010, which may have been a trigger for the level drop that was sustained by low precipitation over the subsequent few years. The National Drought Mitigation Center shows that the drought across Hawaii intensified in early 2010," observatory scientists said. 
  
 But there could be other factors. 
  
 Lake Waiau is a "perched" water body, in which water is held in a depression by an impermeable substrate of layers of silty clay, interbedded with ash layers, and possibly permafrost, the article said. 
  
 Scientists are also wondering if the permafrost that surrounds the lake may have altered the water balance. 
  
 Scientists are asking residents with historical photographs of the lake to contact them by email at askHVO@usgs.gov. 
  
 "Given its cultural significance and its uniqueness, the disappearance of Lake Waiau would be a great loss for Hawaii. The future is far from certain for Lake Waiau, and DLNR (Department of Land and Natural Resources), rangers, and scientists will continue to watch this situation," the Volcano Watch article said. |||||