Federal authorities are asking for the public to be on the lookout for an armed suspect who may be hiding on eastern Long Island after allegedly holding up banks in three states. 
  
 Luis Alomar is wanted on a federal arrest warrant for allegedly robbing banks in Delaware, New York and New Jersey, according to the FBI. He speaks Spanish and has ties to the Mastic-Shirley area. 
  
 “Alomar is alleged to have made verbal threats to bank tellers, telling them he would shoot them if they said anything,” the agency said in a statement. 
  
 In most cases, he allegedly handed a demand note to the teller indicating he was carrying a weapon. In some cases, a weapon was displayed. He normally demands large bills. 
  
 Alomar also has ties to southern Florida, specifically Palm Beach County, Kissimmee and Osceola County. He should be considered armed and dangerous. 
  
 The 37-year-old suspect is described as 5-feet, 4-inches tall, 145 pounds, with black hair and brown eyes. He has a large mole on his right forehead, as well as tattoos on right arm and right leg. 
  
 He also uses the aliases Arturo Alomar, Luis Arturo, David Diaz, David Gonzalez, Louis Alomar and Luis Castillo. 
  
 Anyone with information is asked to call the New York FBI at 212-384-1000. Tipsters may remain anonymous. ||||| Story highlights Suspected serial bank robber arrested in Medford, New York 
  
 Luis Alomar is suspected in 20 robberies in three states 
  
 The FBI had asked for public's help in finding Alomar 
  
 A suspected serial bank robber wanted in incidents in three East Coast states has been arrested in Medford, New York, the FBI said Tuesday. 
  
 Agents and New York police arrested Luis Alomar, 37, around 2:30 a.m. Tuesday, the agency said in a statement. It didn't provide details of where he was arrested in the Long Island community or how he was located. 
  
 The FBI had sought the public's help Monday in finding Alomar, who is suspected of robbing 20 banks in New York, New Jersey and Delaware. 
  
 Alomar allegedly flashed a gun at tellers in some of the robberies, sometimes threatening to shoot them if they said anything, the FBI said. ||||| Luis Alomar, 37, is wanted by the FBI in a series of bank robberies along the Eastern Seaboard. Photo Credit: FBI 
  
 A suspect in a series of bank robberies along the Eastern Seaboard was arrested in Medford early Tuesday, the FBI said. 
  
 Fugitive Luis Alomar, 37, was taken into custody at about 2:30 a.m., the FBI's New York field office said in a news release. He is currently being held on state parole violations at the Suffolk County Jail, said Christios Sinos, a supervisory special agent at the FBI. An arraignment had not yet been scheduled, he said. 
  
 The release said that police from Suffolk County, Westchester, Yonkers and Greenwich, Conn., assisted in the arrest, as did the New York State Division of Parole. 
  
 The release did not provide details of the arrest or Alomar's arraignment information, and the agency did not immediately respond to an email seeking more information. 
  
 The FBI had issued a news release on Monday, warning that Alomar -- who has ties to the Mastic and Shirley areas -- was wanted and could be armed and dangerous. 
  
 A federal arrest warrant had been issued for Alomar in Delaware for bank robbery, and he is a suspect in several more, including ones in New York and New Jersey, the FBI said Monday. 
  
 The FBI did not specify the locations of the robberies. 
  
 In addition to ties to Long Island, Alomar also has ties to southern Florida, specifically Palm Beach County, as well as Kissimmee in Osceola County. 
  
 He has used aliases, including Arturo Alomar, Luis Arturo, David Diaz, David Gonzalez, Louis Alomar and Luis Castillo, the release said. |||||