As dawn broke over the Caribbean on Thursday, Chris Bertish, bearded and shirtless, paddled toward Antigua’s English Harbour more than three months after leaving Africa, successfully finishing the first crossing of the Atlantic Ocean in a stand-up paddleboard. 
  
 Bertish, a South African sailor and big-wave surfer, had paddled through the night and was now approaching the island under stormy skies, listening to “Impi” by Johnny Clegg and Juluka. 
  
 “The sky was really fierce and ominous,” Bertish, 42, said in his first interview after arriving. “But then the sun peeked its way through with this incredible gold and black beaming through the clouds. It was just beautiful, and it was just me in the middle of it. ” 
  
 He pushed hard over the last three days, covering 125 nautical miles. 
  
 “The last few days were super intense,” he said, his voice weak and croaky. “It’s just so nice to be on dry land and not to have to worry about all the billions of things that could wrong.” ||||| Chris Bertish Completes Transatlantic SUP Crossing! 
  
 It is now official. 
  
 At 8:32 am AST today, March 9, South African Chris Bertish became the first man to successfully standup paddle across the Atlantic Ocean. In fittingly windy and rough conditions, Bertish stroked into Antigua's English Harbour to complete a historic crossing that has covered an unbelievable 4050 miles, according to his team. He paddled 60 miles the day before to round out his final effort. 
  
 The milestone marks the triumphant close to the final chapter of a journey that began in Agadir, Morocco. With his friends, family and onlookers cheering him on and his brothers joining him to paddle the last stretch of the Harbour, Bertish took his final stroke and stepped onto dry land for the first time in 93 days. 
  
 It was a remarkable end to one of our sport's most captivating stories. 
  
 Of course, Bertish's solo, unassisted crossing has not been without its challenges. Shark encounters, equipment failures, unfavorable trade winds, loneliness and huge swells have been just a few of the obstacles that Bertish has had to overcome. 
  
 Through it all, he managed to keep the world updated with Captain's Logs that provided a first-hand look into his hardships, successes, and state of mind. He even managed to spend an hour talking to the editor of SUP magazine, Will Taylor, for a fascinating mid-ocean interview. 
  
 Stay tuned to SUP magazine for more updates about this story throughout the day, including a Facebook live stream of his press conference in a few hours. 
  
 Related 
  
 More coverage of Bertish’s historic crossing. 
  
 Bertish’s Official Facebook page. ||||| In An International First, Surfer Conquers The Atlantic Alone On A Paddleboard 
  
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Courtesy Brian Overfelt for The SUP Crossing Courtesy Brian Overfelt for The SUP Crossing 
  
 In the span of 93 days, Chris Bertish crossed more than 4,050 nautical miles of Atlantic Ocean — and he conquered this lonely crossing standing up. When the South African surfer entered English Harbour on the island of Antigua on Thursday, he was riding the same massive stand-up paddleboard that bore him from Morocco's Agadir Marina roughly three months ago. 
  
 Still, if Bertish's equipment wasn't much different from when he started, his place in the record books now certainly is: On Thursday, Bertish became the first person in history to make a solo trans-Atlantic journey on a stand-up paddleboard. 
  
 "Across the entire Atlantic Ocean and I am finally here," Bertish wrote Thursday on Facebook. "I don't need to be strong and keep it together any longer; it's been 93 days and it's done and I let it all go... I am home!" 
  
 By the time he made it to the West Indies, battling fittingly windy and rough conditions," SUP Magazine reports he had already faced down "shark encounters, equipment failures, unfavorable trade winds, loneliness and huge swells." 
  
 At one point, conditions were so rough — and rough for so long — that he and his navigational systems were "just really embattled to just make it through and survive," Bertish told SUP Magazine in a phone call about halfway through his trans-Atlantic paddle. 
  
 "My craft was taking on water, I couldn't open my hatches, I was underwater most of the time and I don't think most people understand the severity of that kind of problem," he continued. "I have a sea grass growing on my entire deck because it's underwater the entire time." 
  
 But it wasn't all hardship. There were high marks, as well: Bertish says he smashed the records for longest distance paddled alone across open ocean, and for the longest distance paddled alone in a single 24-hour span — 71.96 nautical miles, nearly doubling the previous mark. 
  
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Courtesy of The SUP Crossing Courtesy of The SUP Crossing 
  
 He says he paddled about 60 miles in his last full day on the water alone. 
  
 Now, as we noted in December, Bertish's vessel isn't exactly your granddad's stand-up paddleboard. The 20-foot-long behemoth — which he calls ImpiFish — boasts satellite weather forecasting equipment, handheld radio and GPS, solar panels and a tiny cabin where he could sleep at night. And he's been sure to relay updates to landlubbing supporters on Facebook. 
  
 Those same supporters helped Bertish in his quest to parlay his paddling into charity. He says that as of Thursday, his journey had managed to raise more than $490,000 for Signature of Hope Trust, The Lunchbox Fund and Operation Smile. 
  
 "Bertish aims to raise enough money to build at least five schools in South Africa, provide monthly dividends to feed and educate thousands of children and pay for surgeons to carry out life-changing cleft lip and palate operations," CNN reports. 
  
 "I pretty much ate exactly the same thing every single day for 93 days," he told a crowd assembled to greet him Thursday, as he was settling down to his first meal on land in quite a while. "A lot of the kids we're doing this for don't even have enough money to go to school." 
  
 Bertish added: "Every time I'd look down at the same packet of food I was going to have to eat another day in a row, I tell myself: 'Shut up, you've actually got food to eat.' These kids have nothing." 
  
 He reminded the gathered crowd just how lucky they were to have anything to eat at all ... until, his reminder spoken, the crowd politely told him to shut up and just eat his burger — his first after an ocean's worth of paddling. |||||