Mr McDonnell will accuse Chancellor Philip Hammond of being isolated from cabinet colleagues and will say he is "too weak" to make Brexit a success.
He will call on Mr Hammond to abandon austerity in the Autumn Statement next week, and reverse planned benefit cuts.
But Treasury minister David Gauke said Labour had "zero" economic credibility.
In a speech in central London later, Mr McDonnell will accuse ministers of plotting a "closed-minded Brexit" that "works only for bankers and the rich, instead of one that's based on fairness and works for the rest of us".
Setting out Labour's position ahead of the Autumn Statement - to be made next Wednesday - he will say the government has "the wrong ambitions for the economy and the wrong ambitions for Brexit".
Their approach will "continue to undermine the ambitions of working people", he will say.
Mr McDonnell will say: "We need a credible fiscal framework that supports Brexit; we need actual support for those in work on low and middle incomes; and we need secure and properly funded public services.
"We want to see an end to austerity, with the NHS and social care properly funded and ESA (employment and support allowance) and Universal Credit cuts reversed.
"We want to see an end to tax giveaways for the wealthy. And we need a serious commitment from government to invest across the whole of our country."
Tom Bateman, BBC political correspondent
Since the EU referendum, the Treasury has steered away from the tougher deficit reduction rules imposed by former Chancellor George Osborne.
It has chosen instead to speak of a "pragmatic" approach to balancing the books, given what Philip Hammond described as the "turbulence" that Brexit may bring.
But his Labour opponent will today condemn this approach as weak, arguing the government must go further and end austerity rather than postpone it.
Mr McDonnell is also likely to call for a focus on borrowing to create jobs and infrastructure - a policy he has previously said would go alongside a rule to balance day-to-day taxation and spending.
Labour knows its task is to present itself to voters as credible on the economy, as the battle lines are set out before the first major economic announcement of Theresa May's government next week.
Mr McDonnell will accuse Mr Hammond of lacking influence over the process of withdrawing from the EU, saying: "The CEO of Nissan probably knows more about our Brexit negotiating position than the chancellor."
"Britain cannot afford a weak chancellor who cannot find his voice, when our country faces the biggest economic challenges for a generation. It's time he steps up to the task and stands up to his cabinet colleagues."
However, Chief Secretary to the Treasury David Gauke said Labour had "zero credibility when it comes to the economy".
"They drove Britain to the brink of bankruptcy last time, opposed everything we did to clear up the mess - and now all they offer is a recipe for economic ruin.
"Ordinary working people would pay the price for Jeremy Corbyn's fantasy economics."
It comes as the Institute of Directors (IoD) called on Mr Hammond to "act decisively" and use the Autumn Statement to introduce tax breaks to boost investment.
It released survey figures indicating business confidence had declined in recent weeks, with 50% of the 1,071 respondents asked between 12 and 27 October saying they were pessimistic about the economy over the next 12 months.
Some 30% said they were optimistic.
IoD director general Simon Walker said: "This is a moment for the government to act decisively to make it easier for firms to expand and find more opportunities.
"We know that there isn't a limitless source of funds, so we urge the chancellor to make tax changes that incentivise investment, alongside targeted infrastructure investment."