New York (CNN) President-elect Donald Trump will meet this weekend with one of his fiercest critics: 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney, a discussion that could include the position of secretary of state. 
  
 The two men are set to discuss "governing moving forward" and potentially a role for Romney in Trump's Cabinet, a senior Republican source told CNN on Thursday. 
  
 Romney has long told friends that he would like to serve in government again and the one job he is interested in is secretary of state, a senior Republican with knowledge of the transition tells CNN. The source says that Romney is meeting with Trump in part to discuss it. 
  
 The former Massachusetts governor is being presented as a choice that would show Trump is looking for "adults" because he would bring a team of professionals along with him, the source said, adding that the nomination is being seen as a "serious" possibility. 
  
 The meeting with Romney comes as concern about Rudy Giuliani's chances of confirmation continue -- a factor, the source said, that has been discussed with Trump. It's also the latest in a series of Trump's conversations and encounters with Republicans who did not support his candidacy in an effort to reunite the GOP following a divisive election that fractured the party establishment. 
  
 Trump is also maintaining a jam-packed schedule Thursday as the President-elect's team looks to tamp down reports of disarray and infighting within the transition effort, which has been slow to ramp up following Trump's shocking victory last week. 
  
 One close friend expressed healthy skepticism that Romney would ever serve in the President-elect's Cabinet. 
  
 Romney has often talked how his father, George, did not enjoy serving in President Richard Nixon's Cabinet. After McCain won in 2008, Romney told friends that he didn't want to go into McCain's Cabinet, if he won. 
  
 "Trump's Cabinet seems like an even lower probability," the friend said. "I wouldn't say never, but I would be surprised." 
  
 A Romney appointment would be a startling shift in the two men's relationship. 
  
 One former Romney adviser was surprised by the meeting, but said of Romney, "he cares that much. He's a patriot. This isn't about Donald Trump." 
  
 Another Romney ally added that the only position that would attract him would be secretary of state. "He's known as the economy guy, but look at his book. He is and was more involved in foreign policy issues. And he was right about everything from ISIS to Russia," the person said. 
  
 But on Russia there is major disagreement -- at least in attitude -- between the two men. Romney, during his 2012 campaign, considered Russia an existential threat to the US, while Trump has emphasized the possibility of working closely with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Romney is pro-trade agreements and pro-NATO, while Trump has questioned the US-Europe relationship and campaigned against pacts like NAFTA and the Trans-Pacific Partnership. 
  
 Trump repeatedly slammed the former GOP standard bearer during his ultimately successful bid for the a Republican nomination for his defeat to President Barack Obama, describing him in characteristically colorful terms as a failure. Romney returned fire, repeatedly and forcefully arguing that Trump was not qualified to serve as commander-in-chief. 
  
 In an eviscerating speech last March, before Trump clinched the Republican nomination, Romney slammed Trump as a "con man," a "phony" and "a fraud." 
  
 Romney refused to endorse Trump in the general election. He argued In favor of allowing the Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson onto the debate stage, but did not endorse him either. 
  
 Romney also actively sought to recruit a third-party candidate to carry the conservative banner into the 2016 general election and continued to level heated criticism against Trump in the general election. 
  
 In a June interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Romney warned that Trump's presidency could usher in "trickle-down racism." 
  
 Romney and Trump's meeting will come a week after Romney called to congratulate Trump on his victory, a call Trump tweeted was "very nice!" 
  
 Trump's former campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, said Thursday she believes that Romney and Trump could work together. 
  
 "I think what happens with consensus-builders and good negotiators and successful businessmen who know you have to take the counts of many different people, rivals, allies, is that they find a way to work together," she told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "I think it will be a productive conversation." 
  
 Packed schedule to show transition is on track 
  
 Trump is meeting Thursday with more than a half-dozen potential candidates for top administration posts, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. 
  
 Trump's transition spokesmen also announced Thursday he will name members of the so-called "landing team" of transition officials to work with US officials at the departments of State, Defense Justice and the the National Security Council. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Mitt Romney: 'This is breaking my heart' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mitt Romney: 'This is breaking my heart' 00:45 
  
 Concerns about the slow pace of the transition effort have grown in recent days as US officials at various agencies said they had still not yet established contact with the Trump transition team. 
  
 Following the national security landing team announcement Friday, the transition team will also announce early next week the names of individuals who will lead the transition with economic agencies and domestic policy agencies and groups, RNC communications director Sean Spicer said on a conference call with reporters Thursday. 
  
 In the eight days since Trump's victory, the President-elect replaced New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie as chairman of the transition with Vice President-elect Mike Pence and a slew of transition officials who worked under Christie were subsequently booted from the transition effort. 
  
 Trump is also scheduled to meet with his transition team for two hours on Friday to discuss their progress and go over potential appointments, Trump spokesman Jason Miller said Thursday. 
  
 "My transition team, which is working long hours and doing a fantastic job, will be seeing many great candidates today. #MAGA," Trump tweeted. 
  
 My transition team, which is working long hours and doing a fantastic job, will be seeing many great candidates today. #MAGA — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 17, 2016 
  
 Miller declined Thursday to provide a timetable for cabinet appointments, stressing that the focus is on "getting it right," rather than an "arbitrary timetable," echoing the comments of Conway. 
  
 "In the words of Vice President Biden just yesterday after meeting with Mr. Pence, nobody should expect the government to be formed overnight," Conway said Thursday morning on MSNBC's "Morning Joe." "Nobody is in a rush to do the wrong thing." 
  
 Trump will seek ideas on his administration from nine "top shelf people" he is set to meet with Thursday at Trump Tower, some of whom Miller said are "up for cabinet positions" -- though he did not specify which ones. 
  
 Trump has announced RNC chairman Reince Priebus as White House chief of staff and his campaign CEO Steve Bannon as chief strategist and senior counselor. 
  
 Meetings with Haley, Kissinger, business leaders 
  
 As he focuses on filling key national security posts, Trump sought the counsel of 93-year-old former Secretary of State Kissinger. Trump met with Kissinger for a private meeting in May, but the hawkish former secretary of state has also advised Trump's presidential rival Hillary Clinton, who said she "relied on his counsel" during her time helming the State Department. 
  
 Trump also met with Nikki Haley, the South Carolina governor who was deeply critical of Trump during the Republican primary, who is under consideration for the secretary of state post and other cabinet positions, according to a transition source. 
  
 And continuing with the national security bend of the day, Trump was schedule to speak with Adm. Mike Rogers, the current director of the National Security Agency, and Gen Jack Keane, a retired four star general who advised Clinton in recent years. 
  
 The President-elect will also meet with a pair of Fortune 500 CEOs, Oracle's Safra Catz and FedEx's Fred Smith, as well as Cincinnati Mayor Ken Blackwell and Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, who is under consideration to helm the Treasury Department. 
  
 Shinzo Abe 
  
 Trump also met Thursday afternoon in New York with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the first foreign head of state Trump met with in person since becoming president-elect. 
  
 The Japanese prime minister told reporters after the meeting that he feels the two leaders will be able to maintain "a relationship of trust." 
  
 On the stump, Trump repeatedly argued that Japan should pay a larger share of the costs for US military bases on its soil and even suggested the country should shoulder a greater burden of its defense against the aggressive actions of North Korea and provocations from China. ||||| Retired general called for more aggression towards Isis, as ex-CIA chief David Petraeus reportedly in race for secretary of state 
  
 President-elect Donald Trump has offered the job of national security adviser to Michael Flynn, a former military intelligence chief who has been a vocal critic of the Obama administration, according to a senior Trump official. 
  
 Flynn, 57, who served as the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, has advised Trump on national security issues for months. As national security adviser, he would work in the White House shaping foreign and military policy and have frequent access to a president with no national security experience. 
  
 The Trump official, who was not authorized to discuss the offer publicly, would not say whether Flynn had accepted the job. 
  
 According to photographs released by the Japanese government, he was however present at a meeting on Thursday in New York between Trump and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, at which the US president-elect’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner were also present. 
  
 Shinzo Abe says Japan can have confidence in Trump as president after meeting Read more 
  
 Flynn broke from other national security experts during the US election campaign who denounced Trump, joining the then-candidate at rallies and leading chants against Hillary Clinton, including those that called for her to be locked up. 
  
  
  
 In a fiery address at the Republican National Convention, Flynn emphasized his view that the threat posed by the Islamic State group required a more aggressive US military, as well as his belief that Washington should work more closely with Moscow. 
  
 A retired three-star army general, Flynn ran the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), one of the highest positions a military intelligence officer can attain, between 2012 and 2014. But clashes with top Obama administration officials led to his departure. James Clapper, the CIA director who announced his resignation on Thursday, played a leading role in Flynn’s departure. 
  
 A controversial figure, Flynn has been criticized for regularly appearing on RT, the Russian state-owned television station, and once attended an RT gala, sitting two seats from Russian president Vladimir Putin. He later said his speaker’s bureau had arranged the trip and that he saw no distinction between RT and TV news organizations like CNN. 
  
 The post does not require Senate confirmation. 
  
 Flynn, who wrote in his 2016 book The Field of Fight: How We Can Win the Global War Against Radical Islam and Its Allies, that he was “not a devotee of so-called political correctness”. 
  
 In February, the general posted on Twitter: “Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL”. Then, in July, he retweeted an antisemitic post mocking the Clinton campaign’s blaming of Russian hackers for leaked emails: “CNN implicated. ‘The USSR is to blame!’ Not anymore, Jews. Not anymore.” Flynn later deleted his retweet and apologized, saying it was a mistake; the tweet about Muslims has not been deleted. 
  
  
  
 General Flynn (@GenFlynn) Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL: please forward this to others: the truth fears no questions... https://t.co/NLIfKFD9lU 
  
 The reported pick drew immediate statements of concern, including from Human Rights Watch, which said that it showed “a deeply disturbing disregard for human rights principles and the laws of war”. The rights group noted that “Flynn has repeatedly refused to rule out Trump’s proposed use of torture and other war crimes”. 
  
 Sessions, Flynn and Pompeo: who are the potential Trump cabinet picks? Read more 
  
 Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, said in a statement on Thursday night that he was “deeply concerned about [Flynn’s] views on Russia” because of their “fondness for the autocratic and belligerent Kremlin”. He also pointed to the general’s “inflammatory remarks regarding Islam” and his “uncritical acceptance of the Turkish crackdown on dissent”. 
  
 Schiff also said he thought the best choice for national security adviser would be someone “steady and thoughtful” who could “help offset the potentially impulsive nature of the next president”. 
  
 Also on Thursday, diplomatic sources said that David Petraeus – the former US army general and CIA director who was prosecuted for mishandling classified information – had entered the race to become Donald Trump’s secretary of state. 
  
  
  
 Petraeus resigned in November 2012 after the FBI discovered he had had an affair with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, and had shared classified information with her. He eventually pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge for mishandling the information. People who have seen him recently say he is anxious to return to public life and has privately refused to rule out serving in a Trump administration. 
  
 Petraeus, who was also a US commander in Afghanistan and Iraq, has made flattering remarks about Trump since the election. “He’s right to criticise Washington over its partisanship and its inability to forge compromises,” he told the German cable news channel Deutsche Welle this week. “He’s a dealmaker. Let’s see if he can make some deals in Washington.” 
  
 He added: “This is an individual who is a political outsider. Perhaps he can do something in Washington that the political insiders, who he rightly criticises, have been unable to do, which is to come together to give a little, to gain a lot for our country.” 
  
 The favourite for the secretary of defence, according to diplomats who have been in touch with the Trump team in recent days, is Jeff Sessions, a rightwing, anti-immigration senator from Alabama who has been accused of making racist remarks. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest David Petraeus has made flattering remarks about Trump’s ‘outsider’ status since the election. Photograph: Chris Keane/Reuters 
  
 But the battle for top foreign policy jobs is still intense, and foreign governments are being warned a comprehensive announcement may not be made until after the Thanksgiving holiday on 24 November. 
  
 On Thursday, Trump’s team announced he had met Sessions at Trump Tower in New York the day before. “The president-elect has been unbelievably impressed with Senator Sessions and his phenomenal record as Alabama’s attorney general and US attorney,” a spokesperson said. “It is no wonder the people of Alabama re-elected him without opposition.” 
  
 Earlier this week, the main contenders for secretary of state appeared to be former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani and former ambassador to the UN John Bolton, but Giuliani ran into significant opposition over his extensive lobbying ties with foreign governments, and Bolton’s fiercely held convictions on the strategic need to confront Russian expansionism are at odds with the views of Trump’s inner circle. 
  
 South Carolina governor Nikki Haley is seen as another option, and she visited Trump Tower on Thursday. Haley, who was born in the US to Sikh parents who emigrated from India, would join a cabinet that looks set to be dominated by white men. Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, told reporters: “We’re just happy to have her here for her advice and her counsel and hearing about the great success story that is South Carolina under her leadership.” 
  
 A small circle including family members and Flynn is said to be urging Trump not make appointments of well-known Washington figures that would send a “business as usual” messages to the people who voted for him. 
  
 The president-elect also received advice on Thursday from Henry Kissinger, 93, who was secretary of state under Richard Nixon. A statement from the transition team office said they had “a great meeting” at Trump Tower and discussed China, Russia, Iran, the EU and other events and issues around the world. 
  
  
  
 It quoted Trump as saying: “I have tremendous respect for Dr Kissinger and appreciate him sharing his thoughts with me.” 
  
 Kissinger’s legacy as America’s top diplomat remains hugely divisive: Hillary Clinton, who also held the position, has welcomed his praise but her former Democratic rival Bernie Sanders branded him “one of the most destructive secretaries of state in the modern history of this country”. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Donald Trump and Michael Flynn during a campaign town hall meeting in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Photograph: Mike Segar/Reuters 
  
 Foreign governments have had to scramble to make connections with the Trump transition team, which one diplomat estimated at less than a hundred – a tenth of the size of Clinton’s would-be transition team that had been standing by until the shock election result. 
  
 The Germans have foundKushner their most amenable interlocutor, while the British, who have yet to cultivate Trump’s son-in-law, found their best contacts were swept out along with the former head of the transition team, New Jersey governor Chris Christie. British diplomats had to try a number of different routes before managing late on 9 November to arrange a phone call with Theresa May early the next morning. 
  
 Speculation over other cabinet positions is no less intense. As well as Sessions, Congressman Mike Pompeo of Kansas is also believed to be in contention for defence secretary. As a congressional candidate in 2010, he had to apologise for a tweet his campaign sent out promoting an article that called his opponent Raj Goyle, an Indian American Democrat, a “turban topper”. 
  
 Senator Ted Cruz, branded “Lyin’ Ted” by Trump during a bitter Republican primary campaign and now tipped as a possible attorney general, told Fox News that he and the celebrity businessman had had “a far-reaching conversation” at Trump Tower. |||||