After a relatively quiet night on the Israeli side of the border, Friday morning saw the renewal of rocket fire from the Gaza Strip toward Israel's south. Several rockets hit residential areas in Ashdod; a woman sustained light injuries and a few residents suffered an anxiety attack following the rocket fire. The Israel Defense Forces struck some 150 targets overnight in Gaza. 
  
 On Thursday night, two Fajr rockets were fired toward Tel Aviv. Sirens were sounded in the Tel Aviv area for the first time since the Gulf War in 1991. 
  
 The IDF said that since the operation began with the assassination of Ahmed Jabari, it has struck most of the Fajr launching sites in Gaza. The Iranian-made Fajr rockets, when fired from the northern Gaza Strip, can hit cities in central Israel. 
  
 The IDF is now preparing for the possibility of expanding the operation, including the use of ground forces in the Gaza Strip. The IDF General Staff on Friday morning approved the initial draft of 16,000 army reservists. Israel agreed to hold fire during a visit in Gaza by Egypt Prime Minister Hashim Kandil. During his visit, volleys were fired from Gaza toward Israel's south. 
  
 Click here to subscribe to Haaretz for only $1 for the first month 
  
 LIVE BLOG 
  
 7:48 A.M. Iron Dome battery intercepts two rockets fired from Gaza toward Be'er Sheva and Ofaqim; five rockets explode in Eshkol Regional Council, one in Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 7:33 Israel Air Force strike in Khan Younis kills Palestinian. 25 Palestinians wounded in aerial assault on the house of a top Hamas military official near Jabaliya in northern Gaza. Other strikes targeted Gaza police headquarters, smuggling tunnels and a mosque in Rafah (Avi Issacharoff) 
  
 7:28 A.M. Deputy head of Hamas' political bureau, Moussa Abu Marzouk, says initial attempts are made to bring a temporary cease fire between Israel and Hamas. Abu Marzouk, who is currently in Cairo, who is considered a key negotiator for Hamas, adds that such the sides are still far from reaching such agreement. 
  
 7:13 A.M. After a relatively quiet night, sirens sound in Ashkelon area, Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council and Sdot Negev Regional Council. No reports of casualties or damage (Haaretz) 
  
 6:15 A.M. Anonymous activists launch an attack on Israeli websites, defacing and disabling many websites including the political party Kadima's website. Activists claim they had wiped databases of the Foreign Ministry and Bank of Jerusalem clean. (Haaretz) 
  
 6:00 A.M. IDF reports it had targeted 85 more terror sites in the Gaza Strip during the past six hours. (Haaretz) 
  
 6:00 A.M. Israel Air Force strikes the office building of Gaza Prime Minister Ismail Haniya. The IDF says the bureau was also used as Hamas headquarters. Three days ago the IDF bombed a generator near Haniya's house in Gaza (Gili Cohen) 
  
 4:00 A.M. Red Alert siren goes off in Ashkelon. (Army Radio) 
  
 1:55 A.M. U.S. President Barack Obama discusses situation in Israel and Gaza with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday, reiterated U.S. support for Israel's right to defend itself. (Reuters) 
  
 11: 25 P.M. IDF kills five Palestinians in Gaza. Since start of fighting, three Israelis were killed, as were 29 Gazans. Palestinians report that 10 out of the 29 killed were civilians. (Haaretz) 
  
 11:07 P.M.The Israeli cabinet approved the request of Defense Minister Ehud Barak to call-up 75,000 additional reservists. The draft order is due to take effect within a few hours. During Operation Cast Lead, some 10,000 reservists were drafted and during the Second Lebanon War, some 60,000 reservists were drafted. (Haaretz) 
  
 10:45 P.M. Gaza rocket explodes north of Ashdod (Haaretz) 
  
 10:31 P.M, Head of Hamas' anti-tank warfare was killed in Israeli air strike; IDF confirms that IAF planes bombed the building of Hamas' Interior Ministry on Friday morning. 
  
 10:04 P.M. Gaza residents receiving alerts from IDF via text messages warning against strikes (Haaretz) 
  
 9:30 P.M. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas accused Israel of launching Gaza assault to undermine his efforts to secure diplomatic upgrade at UN (Reuters) 
  
 9:24 P.M. U.S. President Barack Obama speaks with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the escalation in Gaza. "The two leaders shared their concerns about the dangers to civilian populations on both sides and expressed their common desire to see an end to the violence." (Haaretz) 
  
 9:13 P.M. Rockets fired from direction of Egypt toward Eshkol Regional Council (Haaretz) 
  
 9:06 P.M. Barrage of rockets fired toward Be'er Sheva. Iron Dome intercepts one rocket and two more exploded in open areas. Another rocket exploded near residential area in moshav in Eshkol Regional Council (Haaretz) 
  
 8:50 P.M. Three Palestinians, including commander in Hamas' military wing, Ahmed Abu Jalal, were killed during IDF strike in central Gaza. The IDF says the attack targeted a terror cell that was about to launch rockets toward Israel (Haaretz) 
  
 8:45 P.M. U.S. consulate in Jerusalem issues security message for U.S. citizens, urges Americans to "exercise caution and take appropriate measures to ensure their safety and security in light of the escalating level of violence in Gaza, Israel, and the West Bank" (Haaretz) 
  
 8:40 P.M. Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman: "Israel has two goals in the Gaza operation: to rehabilitate our deterrence ability and destroy long-range missiles. Once we attain these goals, we will end the operation." (Channel 2) 
  
 8:30 P.M. Palestinian President Abbas asks Arab League chief to visit Gaza (Reuters) 
  
 8:20 P.M. Since the start of Operation Pillar of Defense, some 520 rockets were fired into Israel, 190 of them on Friday (Haaretz) 
  
 7:40 P.M. Grad rocket fired toward Ashkelon, Iron Dome intercepts it (Haaretz) 
  
 7:32 P.M. Defense Minister approves expansion of draft to more than 75,000 army reservists; request was transferred to the approval of the cabinet. In Operation Cast Lead, less than 10,000 were drafted (Haaretz) 
  
 6:36 P.M. Rocket directly hit home in Be'er Tuvia Regional Council; damage but no casualties reported (Haaretz) 
  
 6:24 P.M. Iron Dome intercepts rockets fired toward Ashdod area (Haaretz) 
  
 6:05 P.M. Iron Dome intercepts rocket fired toward Be'er Tuvia Regional Council 
  
 6:00 P.M. Two rockets explode in open areas in Eshkol Regional Council; no casualties or damage reported (Haaretz) 
  
 5:45 P.M.: Defense Minister Ehud Barak approved the request of the IDF to widen the draft of army reservists to more than 30,000. The request was transferred to the approval of the government. 
  
 5:35 P.M. For first time since 1970, rocket fired at Jerusalem, lands in open area in Gush Etzion, directly south of Jerusalem; no casualties (Haaretz) 
  
 5:01 P.M. Hamas claims it fired at the Knesset. Residents report sounds of explosion in the Jerusalem area (Haaretz) 
  
 4:50 P.M. Alarm sounds in Jerusalem area (Haaretz) 
  
 4:40 P.M. Iron Dome intercepts rocket volley toward Be'er Tuvia and Kiryat Malakhi (Haaretz) 
  
 4:25 P.M. Egypt's Morsi: "The new Egypt is completely different, and determined to stop the attack on Gaza" (Avi Issacharoff) 
  
 4:04 P.M. IDF Spokesman: Air force conducted more than 600 strikes in Gaza (Haaretz) 
  
 3:50 P.M. Gag order lifted: Three wounded by explosion in Eshkol Regional Council are IDF soldiers; two moderately wounded, one lightly wounded; all were hospitalized at Soroka Medical Center, Be’er Sheva. (Haaretz) 
  
 3:30 P.M. Since Operation Pillar of Defense began Wednesday, 550 rockets were fired toward Israel, of which 26 exploded in built up areas. By noon on Friday, Iron Dome missile defense system intercepted 109 rockets. The Israel Defense Forces has thus far struck more than 500 targets in the Strip (Haaretz) 
  
 3:25 P.M. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met with President Shimon Peres this afternoon to update him on details of the operation. Netanyahu is currently evaluating the security situation. (Haaretz) 
  
 3:20 IDF resumes Gaza strikes after halting attacks over Egyptian PM's visit (Gili Cohen) 
  
 2:44 P.M. IDF says attacked over 500 targets in Gaza since beginning of Operation Pillar of Defense (Haaretz) 
  
 2:31 P.M. Direct hit on a house in Be'er Tuvia Regional Council; none wounded, building damaged (Haaretz) 
  
 2:21 P.M. Iron Dome system intercepts rocket volleys fired toward Ashdod and one rocket fired at Sderot (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 2:15 P.M. Britain cautions Israel: "Israel does have to bear in mind that it is when ground invasions have taken place in previous conflicts that they have lost international support and a great deal of sympathy around the world," British Foreign Secretary William Hague tells BBC radio show. (DPA) 
  
 2:11 P.M. Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi denounces Israel's attacks on the Gaza Strip as "a blatant aggression against humanity" and said Cairo "would not leave Gaza on its own", the state news agency MENA reports. (Reuters) 
  
 2:01 P.M. Rocket volley fired toward Ashkelon, Gan Yavne, and Be'er Sheva (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 1:56 P.M. Tel Aviv municipality says will unlock all public bomb shelters (Haaretz) 
  
 1:58 P.M. Alarm sounds in Be’er Sheva and Ashkelon (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 1:50 P.M. Three Israelis wounded after rocket explodes in Eshkol Regional Council (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 1:47 P.M. Rocket fired toward Tel Aviv explodes in open area; no wounded or damages reported. IDF says projectile did not explode on the ground (Yanir Yagna). 
  
 1:30 P.M. Alarm sounds in the Tel Aviv area indicating rocket fire from Gaza; (Haaretz) 
  
 1:28 P.M. UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay denounces Israel's aerial attacks on the Gaza Strip as well as rockets fired by Hamas militants into southern Israel (Reuters) 
  
 1:25 P.M. Iron Dome battery intercepts 4 rockets over Ashklelon; one rocket explodes in open area (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 1:23 P.M. Red alert sirens sound in Be’er Sheva and the Ofaqim area (Haaretz) 
  
 1:15 P.M. Red Alert sirens, indicating rocket fire from Gaza, sound across Israel’s south (Haaretz) 
  
 1:05 P.M. Gaza rocket hits chicken coop in the Eshkol Regional Council; red alert sirens sound in the Gaza envelope communities near border (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 1:04 P.M. Iron Dome batteries intercept at least 4 rockets over Be’er Sheva and Kiryat Malachi after barrage of rockets was fired from Gaza; one rocket hits Be’er Sheva, rest of rockets explode in open areas (Yanir Yagna, Gili Cohen) 
  
 12:45 P.M. German Chancellor Angela Merkel calls on Egypt to use its influence on Gaza’s Hamas to bring a cease fire. "There is no justification for the shooting of rockets at Israel, which has led to massive suffering of the civilian population," the statement said. (Reuters) 
  
 12:28 P.M. Hundreds of Hamas activists march in Ramallah in support of Ismail Haniya’s government in Gaza; calling to bomb Tel Aviv (Amira Hass) 
  
 12:12 P.M. Touring the south, Labor party chairman Shelly Yacimovich says government must compensate business and workers in south of Israel threatened by rockets from Gaza. Yacimovich said that the Finance Ministry now only compensates communities located some 7 kilometers from the Gaza border, adding that this leaves out the residents of Ashkelon, Be’er Sheva, Ashdod, Ofaqim and other cities and towns (Haaretz) 
  
 12:02 P.M. IDF: Israel Air Force bombs technological development centers in Gaza used for drone production (Gili Cohen) 
  
 12:02 P.M. Iron Dome battery intercepts over Sderot a rocket launched from Gaza after red alert sirens sound in the area (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 12:00 P.M. IDF Brigade commander: We have known an operation in Gaza was just a matter of time; we spoke of it during training drills, conventions. There is no doubt action is needed (Haaretz) 
  
 11:46 A.M. Two rockets fired from Gaza explode in open areas in the southern Eshkol Regional Counil (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 11:42 A.M. EU minister of foreign affairs Catherine Ashton in a statement: "I am deeply concerned at the escalating violence in Israel and the Gaza Strip and deplore the loss of civilian lives on both sides. The rocket attacks by Hamas and other factions in Gaza which began this current crisis are totally unacceptable for any government and must stop. Israel has the right to protect its population from these kinds of attacks. I urge Israel to ensure that its response is proportionate.” In the statement, Ashton said she spoke to leaders in the region, stressing the need to prevent further escalation (Haaretz) 
  
 11:31 A.M. The IDF is holding fire in recent hours due to a visit in Gaza by Egypt Prime Minister Hashim Kandil. Since the beginning of Operation Pillar of Defense the IDF struck more than 300 targets in the Gaza Strip, mostly of rocket storage warehouses, Qassam and Fajr rocket launch sites. 
  
 11:23 A.M. Defense Ministry: Fifth Iron Dome battery to be handed to IDF on Saturday night, two months earlier than planned. The battery is considered to be the most advanced system (Haaretz) 
  
 11:21 A.M. A Reuters employee lightly wounded in attack on car in Nahal Oz, near the Gaza border (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 10:45 A.M. Egypt Prime Minister Hisham Kandil Speaking in Gaza: Egypt supports the Palestinians, Israel’s actions will not go unnoticed (Army Radio) 
  
 10:43 A.M. Home Front Minister Avi Dichter: Some 450 rockets were fired from Gaza at Israel since the beginning of Operation Pillar of Defense, hundreds more are expected to be fired; Israel will not endanger the life of Egypt Prime Minister Hashim Kandil (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 10:31 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound in Ashkelon coast, Kiryat Gat and Lachish area, and near Gedera; Iron Dome battery intercepts at least 4 rockets over Ashdod (Haaretz) 
  
 10:22 A.M. Gaza fire hits a Reuters vehicle near the Gaza border (Gili Cohen, Yanir Yagna) 
  
 10:20 A.M. Rocket explodes in parking lot near a school in southern city of Ashkelon (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 10:05 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound near Ashkelon in Israel’s south (Haaretz) 
  
 9:59 A.M. Egypt President Morsi orders Intelligence Minister Rafat Shehata to cut his Turkey visit short; according to a source in Egypt, Shehata will join Prime Minister Kandil in visiting Gaza (Jack Khoury) 
  
 9:54 A.M. IDF strikes home of Muhammad Abu Shamala, a top official in Hamas' military wing in the southern Strip (Avi Issacharoff) 
  
 9:50 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound in the Ashkelon coast, Kiryat Gat area, Kiryayt Malachi and the Gaza envelope communities (Haaretz) 
  
 9:40 A.M. Rockets explode in open areas in the Kiryat Gat area; Irone Dome battery intercepts rockets over Ashkelon and Kiryat Gat; no casualties or damage reported (Yanir Yagna, Haaretz) 
  
 9:30 A.M. Red Alert alarms sound in the Kiryat Gat area as a rocket barrage is fired toward Israel’s south (Yanir Tagna) 
  
 9:17 A.M. More than 20 rockets explode in the Eshkol Regional Council and in Sha'ar Hanegev Regional Council. No casualties or damage reported (Yanir Yagna) 
  
 9:16 A.M. Red Alert alarms sound in Kiryat Gat and the surrounding area (Haaretz) 
  
 9:12 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound in the Ashkelon coast region (Haaretz) 
  
 9:08 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound as 13 rockets are fired at Israel’s south; a house in the Eshkol Regional Council suffers a direct hit (Haaretz) 
  
 9:12 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound in the Ashkelon coast region (Haaretz) 
  
 9:08 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound as rocket barrage fired at Israel’s south; a house in the Eshkol Regional Council suffers a direct hit (Haaretz) 
  
 8:50 A.M. Egypt Prime Minister Hisham Kandil arrives in Gaza in attempt to mediate a cease fire agreement; Israel to hold fire during visit (AP) 
  
 8:31 A.M. Iron Dome battery intercepts a rocket fired from Gaza near Ashkelon (Haaretz) 
  
 8:23 A.M. Iron Dome battery intercepts a Gaza rocket over southern city of Ashkelon (Haaretz) 
  
 08:07 A.M. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu informs Egypt that the IDF will hold fire during the planned visit of its prime minister in Gaza on Friday morning (AP) 
  
 8:05 A.M. Six rockets explode in open areas in the Eshkol Regional Council. No reports of casualties or damage (Haaretz) 
  
 8:01 A.M. The IDF General Staff decides on initial draft of 16,000 reservists, some of which to replace the forces currently operating in the Gaza area (Haaretz) 
  
 7:55 A.M. Some 30 rockets fired at Israel’s south in the past 10 minutes. No reports of casualties or damage (Haaretz) 
  
 7:47 A.M. Red Alert sirens sound in wide areas in southern Israel including Be'er Sheva, Ofakim, and Sderot (Haaretz) 
  
 7:16 A.M. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel will stop offensive action in Gaza during visit by Egyptian Prime Minister Friday (Reuters) 
  
 7:15 A.M. Gaza Rocket hits an empty house in the Sha'ar Ha'Negev Regional Council, no injuries (Haaretz) 
  
 7:00 A.M. Gaza Rocket hits residential area in Ashdod, no injuries reported (Haaretz) 
  
 6:55 A.M. IDF confirms it bombed the Hamas's Ministry of Interior in the Gaza Strip (Haaretz) 
  
 6:50 A.M. Red Alert sounds in Ashdod (Haaretz) 
  
 6:45 A.M. Red Alert sounds in Sdot Negev Regional Council. (Haaretz) 
  
 4:01 A.M. Hamas reports one IDF strike near a graveyard in the Al Shujaiya neighborhood east of Gaza City, also two strikes in Rafah and in Khan Younis, as well as IAF shelling in the Strip. No injuries reported. (Haaretz) 
  
 3:47 A.M. Since beginning of the operation in Gaza, Magen David Adom rescue services has treated 54 wounded Israelis, including the three Israeli casualties in Kiryat Malakhi. (Haaretz) 
  
 3:32 A.M. Jewish Federations of North America commits up to $5 million in new Israel Terror Relief Fund "to stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Israel at this critical time." The funds will be used "for the immediate needs of the people of Israel, especially in the South, through both existing reserve funds and new contributions from Federations," the JFNA said in a statement. (Natasha Mozgovaya) 
  
 2:35 A.M. U.S. Senate unanimously passes resolution expressing solidarity with Israel, supporting its “inherent right to act in self-defense to protect its citizens against acts of terrorism." (Natasha Mozgovaya) 
  
 2:26 A.M. PLO mission to the U.S. has criticized the Obama administration's response to the operation in Gaza: "The United States response is at best biased and weak because it completely ignored the fact that Israel started the escalation. The U.S. has a moral obligation to ask Israel not to deploy its U.S.-made weapons to kill and injure civilians. The U.S. is also expected to tell Israel that there is no military solution to the conflict. The only way to achieve peace is to uproot the cause of its absence: Israel’s military occupation of Palestine. It is shameful that certain countries are justifying the murder of Palestinian civilians. It is time for all to understand that Palestinian lives are as precious as any others in the region and around the world. The political complicity must end and Israel must be held accountable." (Natasha Mozgovaya) 
  
 1:56 A.M. Air France announces that due to the escalation with Gaza there may be disruption to its flights to and from Israel. (Haaretz) 
  
 1:04 A.M. Red alert sounds in Ashkelon. (Haaretz) 
  
 00:15 A.M. French President Francois Hollande has begun talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other world leaders to avert an escalation of violence in the Gaza Strip, Prime Minister Jean-Francois Ayrault said on Thursday. 
  
 "It's time to stop this escalation, which is dangerous for the security of Israel and its people and for that of the Palestinian people," Ayrault told reporters during a visit to Berlin. France had made "direct contact" with Netanyahu and Egyptian Prime Minister Mohamed Morsi, he added. (Reuters) 
  
 00:57 A.M. Rockets fired toward Ashkelon and Sdot Negev and Hof Ashkelon Regional Councils. No damage or injuries reported. (Haaretz) 
  
 For Thursday's live updates, click here. ||||| Hamas rocket squads aimed at Jerusalem for the first time Friday, along with commercial hub Tel Aviv, showing off their expanded reach with what they said were Gaza-made projectiles that have never been fired before. Israel called up 16,000 reservists, moving a step closer to a possible ground offensive in the Palestinian territory. 
  
 Israeli soldiers work on their a tanks in a staging ground near the border with Gaza Strip, southern Israel, Friday, Nov. 16, 2012. Fierce clashes between Israeli forces and Gaza militants are continuing... (Associated Press) 
  
 Israeli police and Muslim worshippers who were prevented from entering the Al-Aqsa mosque compound for prayers, scuffle in Jerusalem's Old City, Friday, Nov. 16, 2012. Israeli police was on high alert... (Associated Press) 
  
 Gaza's Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh, right, and Egyptian Prime Minister Hesham Kandil, left, hold the body of a Palestinian boy they claim was killed in an Israeli strike on Gaza City, as they... (Associated Press) 
  
 Israeli soldiers work on their a tanks in a staging ground near the border with Gaza Strip, southern Israel, Friday, Nov. 16, 2012. Fierce clashes between Israeli forces and Gaza militants are continuing... (Associated Press) 
  
 A medic carries the body of a Palestinian boy, who they claim was killed in an Israeli strike on Gaza City, to an event in which media were invited to cover the visit of Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh... (Associated Press) 
  
 Air raid sirens sounded in the two cities which _ unlike population centers in Israel's south _ had not been exposed to rocket fire from Hamas-ruled Gaza before the current round of cross-border fighting. No injuries were reported, but Hamas' latest attempts to hit Israel's heartland could push Israel closer to sending ground troops into Gaza. 
  
 Over the past three days, Israel has relentlessly pounded suspected rocket launching sites and other Hamas targets in Gaza with scores of airstrikes, while Hamas has fired more than 450 rockets toward Israel. 
  
 Hamas was badly bruised during its last full-fledged confrontation with Israel four years ago, but appeared better prepared this time with a more powerful arsenal. 
  
 Just a few years ago, Palestinian rockets were limited to crude, homemade devices manufactured in Gaza. But in recent years, Hamas and other armed groups have smuggled in sophisticated, longer-range rockets from Iran and Libya, which has been flush with weapons since Moammar Gadhafi was ousted last year. 
  
 Most of the rockets do not have guided systems, limiting their accuracy, though Israeli officials believe the militants may have a small number of guided missiles that have not yet been deployed. 
  
 Hamas said the two rockets aimed at the two Israeli cities Friday were made in Gaza, a prototype the militants call M-75, and have a range of about 80 kilometers (50 miles). 
  
 The air raid sirens sounded in Jerusalem after the start of the Jewish Sabbath in the holy city, claimed by both Israel and the Palestinians as a capital and located about 75 kilometers (47 miles) from Gaza. Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said the rocket landed in an open area southeast of the city. 
  
 Earlier Friday, Gaza militants fired toward Tel Aviv and an explosion was heard in the city, but no injuries were reported. Hamas had first targeted Tel Aviv on Thursday, an unprecedented achievement for the group. 
  
 "We are sending a short and simple message: There is no security for any Zionist on any single inch of Palestine and we plan more surprises," Abu Obeida, spokesman for the Hamas militant wing, said of the rockets aimed at Israel's two main cities. 
  
 Lt. Col. Avital Leibovich, an Israeli military spokeswoman, said no decision has been made yet on a ground offensive but all options are on the table. Dozens of armored vehicles have been moved to Israel's border with Gaza since fighting intensified Wednesday, following Israel's assassination of the Hamas military chief. 
  
 She said 16,000 reserve soldiers were called up Friday, and the army could draft an additional 14,000 soldiers. She did not say where the reservists were being deployed. 
  
 The violence has widened the instability gripping the region, straining already frayed Israel-Egypt relations. The Islamist government in Cairo, like Hamas linked to the region-wide Muslim Brotherhood, recalled its ambassador in protest and dispatched Prime Minister Hesham Kandil to show solidarity with Gaza. 
  
 Kandil called for an end to the offensive while touring Gaza City's Shifa Hospital with the territory's prime minister, Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas, who was making his first public appearance since the fighting began. 
  
 In one chaotic moment, a man rushed toward the two leaders, shouting as he held up the body of a 4-year-old boy. The two prime ministers cradled the lifeless boy who Hamas said was killed in an Israeli airstrike _ a claim Israel denied. 
  
 Fighting to hold back tears, Kandil told reporters that the Israeli operation must end. 
  
 "What I saw today in the hospital, the wounded and the martyrs, the boy ... whose blood is still on my hands and clothes, is something that we cannot keep silent about," he said. 
  
 Israel said it halted its incessant air attacks on militant targets in Gaza during Kandil's visit, though Hamas security claimed three airstrikes hit the territory during that period. 
  
 Militants, meanwhile, fired off more than 60 rockets after Kandil arrived in Gaza. The pace of cross-border fighting quickly resumed after the Egyptian leader's departure. 
  
 In Egypt's two largest cities, Cairo and Alexandria, thousands protested the Israeli offensive Friday in marches organized by Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood. Protesters waved Palestinian flags and chanted slogans against Israel. In Cairo's Tahrir Square, a few hundred protesters burned an Israeli flag. 
  
 Prominent Brotherhood figures took part, many brandishing the checkered Palestinian scarf, or keffiyeh, during the marches. 
  
 Small anti-Israeli demonstrations occurred in east Jerusalem and the West Bank. Police dispersed the crowds with tear gas and stun grenades. And in Iran, a close Hamas ally, thousands of people took to the streets in the capital Tehran. The demonstrators carried banners denouncing Israel. They chanted "Death to the U.S." and "Death to Israel." 
  
 In Europe, reaction was mixed. Germany held Hamas responsible and urged Egypt to pressure the Islamists to halt the violence, while Britain cautioned Israel against launching a ground offensive. 
  
 "When Israel has entered into ground invasions in other conflicts that is when they have lost a good deal of international sympathy and support, and of course civilian casualties become much harder to avoid in that situation," Foreign Minister William Hague told reporters in London. 
  
 In the West Bank, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, announced that U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon would arrive in the region in the coming days in a bid to reduce tensions. Abbas lost control of Gaza to Hamas five years ago but still claims to represent both Palestinian territories. Israeli officials also confirmed Ban was expected. It was not immediately clear whether Ban would visit Gaza. 
  
 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appeared determined to move forward. "The Israeli military "continues to strike hard against Hamas and is prepared to expand its action into Gaza," he said. 
  
 At least 23 Palestinians, including 12 militants and six children, as well as three Israelis have been killed in the fighting _ a relatively low toll compared to the beginning of Israel's previous major offensive against Hamas four years ago. Netanyahu has said the air force is trying to strike surgically and avoid harm to civilians. 
  
 The 4-year-old boy whose body had been handed to Kandil and Haniyeh was killed along with a young man earlier Friday when an Israeli missile struck close to their homes in the town of Jebaliya near Gaza City, relatives said. 
  
 The area near the boy's home showed signs that a projectile had exploded there, with shrapnel marks in the walls of surrounding homes and shattered kitchen windows. But neighbors said security officials quickly took what remained of the projectile, making it impossible to verify who fired it. 
  
 Kandil's visit came after a night of fierce exchanges. 
  
 Overnight, the military said it targeted about 150 rocket-launching sites as well as ammunition warehouses, bringing to 450 the number of sites struck in the three-day operation. 
  
 Militants unleashed dozens of rocket barrages overnight, setting off air-raid sirens throughout an area that is home to some 1 million Israelis. 
  
 Early Friday, 85 missiles exploded within 45 minutes in Gaza City, sending black pillars of smoke towering above the coastal strip's largest city. The military said it was targeting underground rocket-launching sites. 
  
 One missile flattened sections of the Interior Ministry, which oversees Hamas security forces, leaving a huge pile of rubble. Another hit an uninhabited house belonging to a senior Hamas commander. Those strikes, together with an attack on a generator building near Haniyeh's home, suggested that Israel was expanding its offensive beyond military targets. 
  
 Ten-month-old Haneen Tafesh was killed Thursday when flying shrapnel from an air attack on a field next to her family's shack struck her in the head. 
  
 "What did she do? Did she fire any rockets?" her 23-year-old father, Khaled Tafesh, asked as he waited outside the Shifa hospital morgue, waiting for the funeral of his only child to begin. 
  
 Israel and Hamas had largely observed an informal truce since a devastating Israeli incursion into Gaza four years ago, but rocket fire and Israeli airstrikes on militant operations continued sporadically. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Federman reported from Jerusalem. ||||| JERUSALEM — Israel retaliated for Palestinian rocket attacks on Tel Aviv and Jerusalem with five airstrikes before dawn on Saturday on the Gaza City offices of Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of Hamas — the militant Islamist group that governs Gaza. 
  
 Mr. Haniya’s office was destroyed, witnesses said, and the main police complex nearby was also hit. About the same time at the south end of the Gaza Strip, heavy Israeli bombardment was reported on the smuggling tunnels leading to Egypt. There were no reports of deaths from those strikes as of 7 a.m. Saturday, but Mr. Haniya’s office is in a populated area, and several homes around it were damaged. 
  
 The Israeli military confirmed the attacks and said it had also targeted the Hamas Ministry of Interior, a Hamas training facility, buildings where weapons were stored, and rocket launching sites. The Israel Defense Forces said it would “continue targeting sites that are used to carry out terror attacks against Israeli citizens.” 
  
 On Friday, emboldened by displays of Egyptian solidarity and undeterred by Israel’s advanced aerial firepower, Palestinian militants under siege in Gaza broadened their rocket targets, aiming at Jerusalem for the first time, sending a second volley screeching toward Tel Aviv and pushing the Israelis closer to a ground invasion. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Israel’s government more than doubled the number of army reservists it could call to combat if needed in the increasingly lethal showdown with Gaza’s Hamas fighters and their affiliates, after they fired more than 700 rockets into southern Israel over the last year. The escalation has raised fears of a new chapter of war in the intractable Arab-Israeli conflict. 
  
 The Israeli military closed some roads adjacent to Gaza in anticipation of a possible infantry move into the territory, which would be the first Israeli military presence on the ground in Gaza since the three-week invasion of 2008-9. The Israeli military chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Benny Gantz, went south to brief regular forces and reservists. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 “We are here tonight on the eve of a possible ground operation,” he said. 
  
 Many residents of Jerusalem, which Israel claims as its capital despite objections from the city’s large Palestinian population and others throughout the Middle East, were startled when wartime sirens warning of impending danger wailed at dusk, followed by at least two dull thuds. Hamas’s military wing claimed in a statement that they were rockets fired from Gaza, 48 miles away, and had been meant to hit the Israeli Parliament. 
  
 The police said one of the rockets crashed harmlessly in open space near an Israeli settlement south of Jerusalem. It was unclear where the others landed, but no damage or injuries were reported. 
  
 Earlier in Tel Aviv, 40 miles from the Gaza border, air-raid sirens wailed for a second day as a rocket fired from the territory approached. A police spokesman, Micky Rosenfeld, said it apparently fell into the Mediterranean. 
  
 Although the rockets missed their intended targets, the launchings aimed at Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, the two biggest population centers, underscored the ability and willingness of Hamas rocket teams to target Israeli or Israeli-occupied areas that up until the past few days had been thought relatively immune. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 “We are sending a short and simple message: There is no security for any Zionist or any single inch of Palestine and we plan more surprises,” Abu Obeida, a spokesman for the military wing of Hamas, said in a message reported by news agencies. 
  
 Even Saddam Hussein, when he led Iraq, avoided targeting Jerusalem when he aimed Scud missiles at Israel during the Persian Gulf war in 1991, not wishing to inadvertently destroy Muslim shrines or hit Arab neighborhoods. 
  
 Despite three days of repeated Israeli aerial assaults on suspected stockpiles of rockets in Gaza, the Israel Defense Forces said more than 100 were fired into Israel on Friday, apparently including Iranian-made Fajr-5 projectiles that Israeli officials say are the only ones in the Hamas arsenal with a range that can reach Tel Aviv or Jerusalem. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Hamas contended it had produced those rockets, which the group called M75s, referring to a range of 75 kilometers or roughly 47 miles. Israeli munitions experts said they had never heard of that weapon. 
  
 Regardless, the rocket barrage caused widespread panic and damage. It also shattered plans for a temporary cease-fire during an unprecedented trip to Gaza by the Egyptian prime minister, Hesham Qandil, a visit that illustrated the shifting dynamics of Middle East politics since the turmoil of the Arab Spring uprisings began nearly two years ago. Under the last president, Hosni Mubarak, regarded by Israel as an important strategic ally, any relationship with Hamas would have been unthinkable. 
  
 “The time in which the Israeli occupation does whatever it wants in Gaza is gone,” Mr. Haniya, the Hamas prime minister, said in a meeting with his Egyptian counterpart. 
  
 The persistent ability of Hamas to keep firing missiles at Israel on Friday appeared to weigh heavily in the Israeli military’s calculations about a ground invasion. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the Israeli Army was “continuing to hit Hamas hard and is ready to expand the operation into Gaza.” Israeli television later reported that Defense Minister Ehud Barak had authorized the military to call up 75,000 reservists if necessary — more than double the 30,000 authorized Thursday. 
  
 No Israelis were reported killed in the rocket attacks on Friday, leaving the reported death toll on Israel’s side at three civilians. The number of Palestinians killed so far in the three days rose to at least 30, Gaza health officials said, underscoring what critics of Israeli policy called Israel’s disproportionate use of military force. Israeli leaders have said they are selectively targeting militants in the Gaza attacks, and they blame Hamas for installing rocket batteries in civilian areas. 
  
 The Israeli military said Friday night that it had killed Muhammad Abu Jalal, a Hamas company commander in Gaza, and Khaled Shaer, who was involved in rocket development. A military spokesman said that earlier in the day, the Israel Defense Forces had sent text messages to about 12,000 Gaza residents warning them to stay away from Hamas operatives. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 In addition, the military said it had crippled Hamas’ burgeoning drone capabilities after striking a number of sites. Hamas, it said, had been developing unmanned aerial vehicles for use as another means of striking Israel. 
  
 The Egyptian prime minister’s three-hour visit to Gaza early in the day produced dramatic imagery to underpin his government’s support for Hamas, which Israel, the United States and much of the West consider to be a terrorist organization. It does not recognize Israel’s right to exist. 
  
 Mr. Qandil, noting that he had been accompanied by a delegation from the Egyptian Health Ministry, said “the aim of this visit is not only to show political support but to support the Palestinian people on the ground.” 
  
 He said a cease-fire between Hamas and Israel was “the only way to achieve stability in the region” and called on the Palestinians to repair the rift between Hamas in Gaza and Fatah, which dominates the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. 
  
 “We call on the Palestinian people to unite because their power and strength is in their unity,” Mr. Qandil said. “That’s the only way to liberate Palestine.” |||||