Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 Norfolk, Va. (WTKR) - The U.S. Navy says flight operations have resumed on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower (CVN 69) following a mishap that injured eight Sailors. 
  
 The Norfolk-based aircraft carrier was about 100 miles off the coast on Friday, March 18th when one of the ship's arresting gear cables parted during an attempted landing by an E-2C "Hawkeye" aircraft. 
  
 Eight Sailors aboard USS Dwight Eisenhower injured 
  
 Four of the injured Sailors were flown to Sentara Norfolk General Hospital, where two had been released as of Monday afternoon. 
  
 Another two Sailors were taken to Portsmouth Naval Medical Center where one remains hospitalized, while the other has been treated and released. 
  
 The final two injured Sailors remained aboard the IKE and were treated in the ship's medical department. One has been released to limited duty, while the other is receiving out-patient care at Portsmouth Naval Medical Center. 
  
 Public Affairs Staff for Commander, Naval Air Force Atlantic tell NewsChannel 3 that the Sailors who remain hospitalized are "resting comfortably." 
  
 Flight operations on the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower resumed Sunday, March 20th. 
  
 An aircraft mishap board has embarked on the shop and is investigating what went wrong. 
  
 The Eisenhower Carrier Strike Group has now resumed their Composite Training Unit Exercise (COMPTUEX) in preparation for deployment this summer. ||||| Editor's note: This article was first published at 3:30 p.m. on April 14 and has been updated. 
  
 One sailor remains hospitalized and three others are in recovery after an arresting cable snapped during a carrier landing in a rare and terrifying flight deck mishap on March 18. 
  
 Sailors on the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower's flight deck saw the landing go horribly wrong in an instant that Friday afternoon. An E-2C Hawkeye snagged the metal cable stretched across the deck. But the plane didn't slow, instead careening down the runaway and plunging over the edge, according to a squadron member who has spoken to eyewitnesses and those injured. 
  
 Behind it, the cable came unhooked from the port side and whipped around toward the superstructure, striking eight members of Carrier Airborne Early Warning Squadron 123. 
  
 after the carrier Dwight D. Einsenhower's arresting cable snapped, injuring eight sailors on the flight deck off the coast of Virginia, according to a source familiar with the squadron whose plane was trying to land when the accident occurred. 
  
 Their injuries range from cuts and bruises to a skull fracture and broken bones, according to the squadron member, who asked not to be identified amid an ongoing investigation. 
  
 It had been more than 10 years since an arresting cable, a thick rope of wires that catches an aircraft's tail hook to slow it down and complete a carrier landing, has parted on a carrier deck, according to Naval Air Force Atlantic spokesman Cmdr. Mike Kafka. 
  
 One maintainer is still at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital, Kafka confirmed. 
  
 The sailor was treated for a severed blood vessel that nearly resulted in a foot amputation, the VAW-123 member said. He was scheduled to go home April 7 , he added, but has had to stay to treat an infected skin graft. 
  
 He is the last of four flown off the ship and treated either at Sentara or Naval Medical Center Portsmouth on March 18. Their injuries included a fractured skull, broken arms, legs and ankles, and dislocated hips. The rest were treated on the ship, according to a Navy release. 
  
 On Friday, a day after this story posted, an image of a cranial reportedly smashed in the March 18 cable accident was to uploaded to photo site imgur with the note, "This cranial saved a shipmate's life during the incident onboard the USS Eisenhower on March 18. Never forgo safety. Ever." 
  
 Close call 
  
 The plane made it back to Naval Station Norfolk undamaged, but not without surviving a harrowing near-miss. The pilots said that rather than the arresting gear slowing them down, they hit the cable all at once . The Hawkeye went nose-down off the bow, but had enough momentum to pull up before hitting the water. 
  
 "It came back, but it had friggin' salt water on the bottom of it, it was that close," the sailor said. "The pilots were all shaken up," he said. "One of them, you could tell it messed him up, because they thought they were going to die." 
  
 Ike resumed flight operations two days later, and a week after the incident, only one sailor was still in the hospital. 
  
 In the meantime, the VAW-123 member said, the chain of command has been providing updates on the guys' conditions and visiting the hospitalized sailor. 
  
 "There's no brain damage as far as I know, but they're both looking at medical retirement, I bet," he said of two of the squadron members who'd been hospitalized. "The other two, I can't imagine how long rehab's going to be for two broken ankles, and the other guy with rods and pins in his legs." ||||| Eight sailors aboard the aircraft carrier USS Eisenhower were injured Friday when a landing cable on the flight deck snapped as a plane touched down. The sailors are in stable condition with non-life threatening injuries and have been medevaced to shore. 
  
 The incident occurred at 2 p.m. Friday about 80 miles east of Virginia where it was conducting a training exercise for a future deployment. 
  
 "Eight Sailors aboard the Norfolk, Va. based aircraft carrier USS Dwight D. Eisenhower (CVN 69) were injured this afternoon when an arresting gear parted during a routine landing by an E-2C Hawkeye aircraft," said a statement from Naval Air Force Atlantic. "There were no fatalities and the Sailors are listed in stable condition with non-life-threatening injuries." 
  
 "The injured Sailors were working on the flight deck at the time of the mishap." The Hawkeye aircraft regained flight and later landed ashore at Norfolk Naval Station Chambers Field. There were no injuries to the crew of the aircraft and no damage to the aircraft. 
  
 A Navy official says six of the injured sailors have been transported to Norfolk Sentara General Hospital for treatment, two others were transferred to Naval Medical Center Portsmouth. 
  
 The carrier is off the Virginia coast conducting carrier qualifications for Composite Training Unit and Joint Task Force Exercises (COMPTUEX/JTFEX) in preparation for their upcoming deployment. 
  
 An investigation is underway to determine the cause. 
  
 A Navy official says the cable that broke was one of four on the deck used to stop the landings of aircraft on the flight deck. According to the official all flight operations aboard the carrier have been suspended as a precaution. 
  
 All aircraft that were flying at the time of the accident were diverted to shore, and no takeoffs are being allowed for aircraft still on the deck. 
  
 The official said it is "extremely rare" for a landing cable aboard a carrier to "part". 
  
 An investigation is underway to determine the cause of Friday's accident. |||||