More than 50 stars including Stormzy, Craig David and Liam Payne, recorded Bridge Over Troubled Water to support victims' families and survivors.
The cover of the Simon and Garfunkel classic was organised by Simon Cowell.
Residents and survivors of the fire-ravaged tower block also appear as part of a choir led by Gareth Malone.
"Seeing how emotional the local residents became while singing was really moving," he told The Sun.
"Some of them actually lived in Grenfell Tower, Their homes have been destroyed. It's very raw for a lot of them."
The song was made available to download at 08:00 BST on Wednesday - a week after the fire - and donations can be made directly on artistsforgrenfell.com.
At least 79 people are now missing, presumed dead, following the fire in west London.
Cowell lives in the same London borough as Grenfell Tower and announced the single last Thursday.
The song opens with a verse by Stormzy, who says: "I don't know where to begin / So I'll start by saying I refuse to forget you.
"I refuse to be silenced / I refuse to neglect you."
The London-born MC goes on to say, "That could have been my mum's house / Or that could have been my nephew", concluding, "I just hope that you're resting and free up there".
Others performing include music legends Brian May, Nile Rodgers and Roger Daltrey, with lines also sung by Ella Eyre, Labrinth and Paloma Faith.
Payne's One Direction bandmate Louis Tomlinson has also loaned his vocals to the track, as has Skepta.
Stereophonics singer Kelly Jones said the choice of Simon & Garfunkel's 1970 song was "very apt", adding: "All these things that are happening in London at the minute, and Manchester and everywhere, I think the main thing is people are pulling together."
X Factor winner Louisa Johnson said she felt "honoured" to be involved with the "beautiful" single, which also features local choirs.
Intro: Stormzy rap
When you're weary - Robbie Williams
Feeling small - James Blunt
When tears are in - Rita Ora
Your eyes - Craig David
I will dry them all - Dan (Bastille)
I'm on your side - Liam Payne
When times get rough - Emeli Sande
And friends just can't be found - Kelly Jones (Stereophonics)
Like a bridge over troubled water - Paloma Faith
I will lay me down - Louis Tomlinson
Like a bridge over troubled water - Labrinth
I will lay me down - Jorja Smith
Rap by WSTRN
When you're down and out - Leona Lewis
When you're on the street - Jessie J
When evening falls so hard - James Arthur
I will comfort you - Roger Daltrey (The Who)
I'll take your part - Ella Eyre
When darkness comes - Anne-Marie & Ella Henderson
And pain is all around - Louisa Johnson
Like a bridge over troubled water - Robbie Williams, all voices
I will lay me down - James Arthur
Like a bridge over troubled water - Choirs
I will lay me down - Rita Ora
Emeli Sande, who has just been made an MBE, said: "I hope it shows the power of community and the strength of people.
"That is the beauty of London, the integration makes it so incredible."
Pianist Tokio Myers, who recently won Britain's Got Talent, has also recorded part of the single, as have Bastille, James Blunt and Dua Lipa.
Meanwhile, West End stars are taking part in a benefit concert next week. Dame Judi Dench, Lin-Manuel Miranda and Harry Potter And The Cursed Child's Noma Dumezweni will be among those taking part in the event at Trafalgar Studios in London.
Proceeds from the show will go to the Grenfell Tower Fire Fund.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.