Twenty-two people were killed and 64 injured when suspected suicide bomber Salman Abedi, 22, attacked concert-goers in Manchester on Monday night.
Police said they were investigating a "network" over the attack.
Meanwhile, the husband of a woman from Gwynedd, who was injured in the bombing, believes her phone saved her.
Lisa Bridgett, who manages the Bluewater Marine Boatyard in Pwllheli, had been at the Manchester Arena with her daughter and her daughter's friend when she was hit by shrapnel.
Her husband Steve said she had lost the middle finger of her left hand after it was hit by a steel nut. It then went through her mobile phone, which she had been using at the time, and it entered her cheek and came to rest within her nose.
She is recovering in a Manchester hospital after surgery on Tuesday and is preparing for another operation on Thursday.
"The fact that she was on the phone at the time probably saved her life," he said.
"The nut has hit her phone which has more than likely not only diverted it, but also slowed it down considerably."
A minute's silence will be held at 11:00 BST on Thursday in remembrance of those who lost their lives or were affected by the attack, the UK government has announced.
The threat level means a further attack anywhere in the UK "may be imminent" and police can call on the military.
But Dyfed-Powys, south and north Wales police forces have no plans to do so, although they are stepping up patrols.
South Wales Police said there would be an increase in armed officers at "key locations".
Assistant Chief Constable Richard Lewis added: "There are a number of key events in south Wales in the coming weeks which will attract large crowds.
"We will continue to review our response to these events depending on the intelligence and information which we receive."
North Wales Police said it would increase patrols, particularly of armed officers.
Assistant Chief Constable Richard Debicki said: "It appears a number of young people and families from the region will have been present and witnessed the events unfold.
"We are meeting with our health service partners and others to identify those individuals to ensure they received the appropriate support and counselling."
Dyfed-Powys Police said it would "tailor our policing resources accordingly".
Gwent Police have urged the public to "remain alert but not alarmed".
Emma Ackland, Assistant Chief Constable of Gwent Police, said "We have reviewed our local patrol strategies and resourcing levels and these will be enhanced, especially around crowded places and within communities that may feel vulnerable.  There are no current plans to deploy military assets into our communities, however this is a fluid situation which we are monitoring continuously."
The team based at Cardiff Airport has increased visible patrols to reassure passengers.
First Minister Carwyn Jones warned people to "remain vigilant" and tweeted, saying "everything is being done to keep the country safe".
Home Secretary Amber Rudd said it "seems likely" Abedi was not acting alone and his 23-year-old brother was arrested on Tuesday, followed by further people on Wednesday.
Ms Rudd said up to 3,800 troops would be deployed on the streets around the UK.
The threat level decided by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre - a group of experts from the police, government departments and agencies - has reached critical twice before.
ACC Lewis also said plans for policing the Champions League final in Cardiff on 3 June had not changed.
He said there would be "no knee-jerk reaction" and its approach, when 170,000 football fans descend on the city, would be intelligence-led and risk-based.
Although there was "no specific threat", he asked people to be "extra vigilant".
Promoter LHG, which is hosting UB40's concert at Wrexham's Racecourse Ground on Friday, said it would re-examine security measures and make adjustments where necessary.
Security consultant Dai Davies, a former head of royal protection, said: "Everybody thinks that once an event is over we can relax - the truth is you can't relax until the fat lady stops singing, as they say."
Hundreds of people have attended vigils across Wales to remember the victims and show solidarity with the people of Manchester.
Further services were held in Bridgend, Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire and Porthmadog in Gwynedd on Wednesday evening.