A Manhattan ad executive who went out to smoke on the balcony of her 17th-floor apartment while on a first date plunged to her death early Thursday morning when she sat on the railing and it gave way. Tracie Strahan reports. (Published Thursday, Aug. 1, 2013) 
  
 A Manhattan ad executive who went out to smoke on the balcony of her 17th-floor apartment while on a first date plunged to her death early Thursday morning when she sat on the railing and it gave way, according to police sources. 
  
 Sources told NBC 4 New York that Jennifer Rosoff, 35, and her date were on the balcony at about 12:30 a.m. and when she sat on the railing's corner, it broke and she plunged to the ground, hitting scaffolding on the way down. 
  
 Her date told investigators he heard two pops before the railing gave way. 
  
 Witnesses reported seeing a screaming man, believed to be Rosoff's date, running from the building at 400 E. 57th St in Sutton Place. Police spoke to him and cleared him of any wrongdoing. 
  
 Building Inspected After Balcony Gives Way, Woman Falls to Death 
  
 The I-Team looks into what could have gone wrong on the balcony that gave way in midtown when a woman sat on it and fell to her to death. Andrew Siff reports. (Published Monday, Aug. 5, 2013) 
  
 A source on the scene provided a description of the railing, which appeared to be metal, and was bent and twisted, with a cigarette lighter still sitting nearby. 
  
 The Buildings Department is investigating. 
  
 Only the higher-floor corner apartments in the gray brick building have balconies, and the Buildings Department issued a partial vacate order for them Thursday. 
  
 A neighbor of Rosoff on the 17th floor, who did not want to give his name, told NBC 4 New York his landlord had sent the superintendent and an inspector to examine his balcony two or three months ago. 
  
 "They just asked to peek at it, and I just assumed they were only talking about the surface of it, because that's what they had worked on," he said. 
  
 A mother who also lives in the building said she was worried for her daughter's safety after the tragedy. 
  
 "I hope they're checking a lot more than the terraces," she said. "Everything should be checked." 
  
 The landlord, Stonehenge Management, LLC, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. 
  
 Rosoff, who had worked at The New Yorker and Lucky Magazine, was director of sales at TripleLift, an advertising company on Fifth Avenue. CEO Eric Berry told NBC 4 New York the staff was struggling Thursday after learning of her death. 
  
 "She was a well-loved and highly respected member of our team," Berry said in a statement. "The entire company is distraught by the loss of Ms. Rosoff -- she will be deeply missed." 
  
 Samantha Massa, an acquaintance of Rosoff, told NBC 4 New York said "she was ambitious, she had a great career." 
  
 Rosoff's family said funeral services were scheduled for this weekend. ||||| NEW YORK (CBSNewYork/AP) — A 35-year-old woman fell to her death from the 17th floor balcony of her Midtown Manhattan apartment after the railing apparently gave way, police said. 
  
 Jennifer Rosoff stepped out to smoke a cigarette on the balcony of her corner apartment at a building known as Stonehenge 57 at First Avenue and 57th Street shortly before 1 a.m. Thursday, 1010 WINS’ Al Jones reported. 
  
 She was sitting on the railing when it suddenly collapsed, causing her to fall backwards, CBS 2’s Don Champion reported. Rosoff, an ad executive, then plunged 17 stories and landed on first-floor construction scaffolding. 
  
 [cbs-audio url=” http://cbsnewyork.files.wordpress.com/2013/08/alex-balcony.mp3″ ; size=”340px” download=”false” name=”Woman Killed In 17-Story Fall From Midtown Manhattan Balcony” artist=”WCBS 880’s Alex Silverman Reports”] 
  
 Investigators said Rosoff was on a first date at the time of the incident. Moments before the fall, her date told her she probably shouldn’t lean on the railing and then heard loud snapping sounds before she fell, authorities said. Police spoke to the man and alcohol and foul play have been ruled out as possible causes of the incident. 
  
 Responding officers found Rosoff unconscious and unresponsive, police said. She was pronounced dead at the scene. 
  
 Residents of the building were shocked on Thursday. 
  
 “I’m very sorry to hear what happened,” one resident said. “The building is very well maintained so I was surprised when I heard the announcement.” 
  
 A neighbor who has been in the apartment in question said the balcony is very narrow. 
  
 “You’ve got about two feet or less,” neighbor Sara Shubert said. “It’s for standing and smoking and looking at the moon or whatever.” 
  
 Shubert added she’ll never forget the sound of Rosoff’s body landing on the scaffolding. 
  
 “I had no idea, but I’d never imagined that it was what it was,” she told WCBS 880’s Alex Silverman. “A dull, big thud.” 
  
 The city’s Department of Buildings was at the scene Thursday examining the stability of other balcony railings. It issued an order to residents to stay off their balconies until they are all inspected, Jones reported. Only the upper floor apartments have balconies in Rosoff’s building. 
  
 [cbs-audio url=” http://cbsnewyork.files.wordpress.com/2013/08/balcony-1-jones-w41-jpowers.mp3″ ; size=”340″ download=”false” name=”Woman Killed In 17-Story Fall From Midtown Manhattan Balcony” artist=”1010 WINS’ Al Jones reports”] 
  
 Rosoff worked at The New Yorker, Lucky Magazine and Cosmopolitan before recently joining a new media advertising startup called TripleLift, according to her LinkedIn profile. 
  
 In a statement, her boss said coworkers were distraught, saying Rosoff was a “well-loved and highly respected member of our team. Her tremendous energy and humor brought so much joy to the office.” 
  
 She attended Tulane University in New Orleans. 
  
 “It shakes you up. It’s a shame,” Shubert said. 
  
 Stonehenge 57 issued the following statement: “By now most of you have probably heard about the recent tragedy. Our sincere condolences go out to the family and friends of Ms. Rosoff. We have reached out to the family to express these sentiments personally. We are cooperating fully with the investigation into the cause of this terrible accident. If you have any questions please contact Jason Dworkin at 646-381-7799 during normal business hours.” 
  
 There was no immediate word how long residents in the building will have to stay off their balconies. 
  
 City inspection reports did not find any recent complaints or violations pertaining to balconies in the building, Champion reported. 
  
 You May Also Be Interested In These: 
  
 (TM and © Copyright 2013 CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2013 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.) |||||