Rapid eye movements in sleep and wakefulness 
  
 To compare neuronal activity underlying REMs in sleep and wakefulness, we conducted full-night (421±20 min (mean±s.e.m.)) polysomnographic sleep studies with adjacent epochs of wakefulness (n=13 participants), as well as recordings during controlled visual stimulation (n=9 participants) and an eye-movement paradigm (one participant), in 19 neurosurgical patients with intractable epilepsy. Participants were implanted with depth electrodes (Fig. 1a–c) that recorded depth EEG and spiking activity during sleep and wake from 600 units (355 putative single units, 245 multi-unit clusters), as described thoroughly elsewhere20. Stability of unit recordings across several hours was assessed in detail (Supplementary Fig. 1). Recordings also included synchronized scalp EEG, electrooculogram (EOG), electromyogram and continuous video monitoring. Sleep–wake stages were scored following established guidelines21. Sleep architecture and power spectra of scalp EEG were in general agreement with typical findings in healthy young adults. 
  
 Figure 1: Data overview and eye movement detection. (a) Set-up for polysomnographic sleep and wake recordings. (b) Illustration of flexible probes used for recording depth EEG (blue: platinum contact) and unit activity (green: microwires). (c) Medial view of depth electrode locations (purple dots) spanning multiple brain regions. (d) REM detection: first row, raw EOG showing two typical REMs in REM sleep. Second row, band-pass filtered (0.1–3 Hz) EOG with thresholds set at mean+2 s.d. (black lines). Third row, detection of epochs crossing the threshold in one EOG channel (green dots). Fourth row, detection is confirmed with opposite polarity in second EOG channel (yellow dot). Fifth row, verification that epoch is free of epileptic spikes in high-pass filtered trace. Sixth row, visual confirmation of REM onset. (e) Occurrence of REMs across vigilance states (mean±s.e.m., n=11/12/13 in REM sleep, wake and Non-Rapid Eye Movement sleep, respectively). Note the near-absence of REMs in NREM sleep. (f) Average traces of REMs in each participant during wakefulness (black, n=12) and REM (red, n=11). (g) Example of EOGs (top, red/blue), depth EEG (brown) and unit spiking activities in the MTL (black lines) during 20 s of wakefulness. Vertical green lines depict detections of REM onsets. Note that some REMs are associated with a tendency of neurons to show transient spike-train responses shortly after REM onset. Am, amygdala; HC, hippocampus; E, entorhinal cortex; L, left hemisphere; PC/P, posterior cingulate/parietal cortex; PH, parahippocampal gyrus; SM, Supplementary motor; R, right hemisphere. Full size image (123 KB) Figures/tables index 
  
 Next 
  
 REMs were detected in EOG traces in a semi-automatic fashion (see Methods section, Fig. 1d–f). REMs were selected for further analysis when at least 20 events were detected for a given subject and sleep stage (n=12 and 11 individuals for wakefulness and REM sleep, respectively). On an average, 3.7±0.8 and 2.6±0.5 REMs per minute were detected in REM sleep and wakefulness, respectively, while detection in NREM sleep was not significantly different from zero (Fig. 1e; P=0.17, Mann–Whitney U-test, n=13 patients), attesting to a low rate of false detections. The relatively low density of REMs in wakefulness likely reflects the experimental setup (overnight recordings in darkness) and EOG measurements that best capture saccades with a large horizontal component (see Supplementary Note for further details). 
  
 The morphology of REMs in sleep and wakefulness was highly similar (Fig. 1f), in line with previous studies4, 22. For example, when subtracting the EOG traces of w-REMs and s-REMs, no statistical differences were found (paired t-test, n=11 pairs, α=0.05, False Discovery Rate (FDR) correction for multiple comparisons). 
  
 Modulation of neuronal activity during REMs 
  
 We set out to examine if neuronal activity, especially that occurring in MTL regions, including the amygdala, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex and parahippocampal gyrus (Table 1), is robustly modulated in concert with REMs, and to what extent such activity is reminiscent of visually evoked activity in wakefulness. To this end, we compared neuronal activity during (a) REM sleep (‘s-REMs’), (b) spontaneous REMs in wakefulness (‘w-REMs’) and (c) during a controlled visual stimulation paradigm in which subjects maintained fixation during short (200 ms) presentation of images. Figure 1g depicts representative traces of eye movements along with simultaneously recorded neuronal activity and depth EEG in the MTL. As can be seen, in some cases, REMs were associated with modulations in spiking activity. 
  
 Table 1: Bi-phasic single-unit modulation around REMs is more prevalent in the MTL compared with frontal regions. Full table Figures/tables index 
  
 We proceeded to quantify the REM-related changes in neuronal activity across the entire data set, and further compared such activities to visually evoked responses to pictures of faces and places (n=133 responsive neurons out of 1,457 overall; 27 sessions in eight individuals, see Methods section). A triggered-averaging analysis was performed around REM onsets, as well as following controlled visual stimulation (Fig. 2). We examined simultaneously recorded scalp EEG (n=12, 10 and 4 electrodes located at Pz in wake, sleep and visual experiment, respectively), depth EEG (n=53 (13 patients), 51 (11 patients) and 13 (2 patients) recording sites in wake, sleep and visual experiment, respectively) and spiking activity within the MTL (n=437, 349 and 1,049 in wake, sleep and visual experiment, respectively). 
  
 Figure 2: REM-triggered averaging of neuronal activity. REM-triggered averaging of multiple signals of interest in wakefulness (left) and REM sleep (middle), as well as during controlled visual stimulation (right). Intracranial recordings (c–e) focused on MTL regions. (a) Mean (± s.e.m.) waveform of EOG traces (light colours: amplitude; dark colours, velocity). (b) Mean scalp ERPs computed at Pz. (c) Mean depth EEG potentials (dERP), (d) mean peri-REM time histogram for ‘biphasic’ MTL neurons in wakefulness (n=79 units, n=16,738 REMs), REM sleep (n=47 units, n=4,510 REMs), and visual stimulation (n=196 units, n=23,248 trials). Note the reduction in firing rate (−400 to 0 ms) and increased activity (150–550 ms) relative to REM onsets, and similar increased activity upon visual stimulation (right). Yellow shading highlights a time window in which negative components in the dERPs are associated with increase neuronal activity in all three conditions. Bars illustrate statistical deviances from baseline corrected for multiple comparisons (Methods). (e) Representative examples of activity in individual neurons (black inset: spike waveform) around REM onsets in wake and sleep (same neuron from parahippocampal gyrus) and visual stimulation (different neuron but from same brain region). Peri-REM-time histograms were computed on 120 ms bins (100 ms overlap). Mean firing rate of each neuron is marked with a dashed horizontal line, grey bars above illustrate statistically significant deviations from baseline (t-test, P<0.05). Error bars denote the s.e.m. across patients (a,b), dEEG channels (c) or REMs (d,e). Full size image (151 KB) Previous 
  
 Figures/tables index 
  
 Next 
  
 Scalp event-related potentials (ERPs) around REMs (Fig. 2b) during both sleep and wakefulness revealed a waveform in line with previous studies23, consisting of an initial transient peak before saccade onset ((−25 to 0)ms, P<0.001, one-tailed t-test compared with a (−800 to −400)ms baseline) followed by a second positive component ((50–200)ms P<0.001). Following controlled visual stimulation, the scalp ERP exhibited a more delayed positive component ((200–600)ms, P<0.05; Fig. 2b, right). In the depth EEG (‘dERP’), robust evoked potentials were found across MTL regions in relation to REMs with a similar positivity around 150 ms as found in the scalp EEG (P<0.01, Fig. 2c). This component was absent during visual presentation without eye movements (P>0.8, Fig. 2c, right). Notwithstanding, a late negativity ((300–400)ms, P<0.05) was observed within the MTL after REMs in sleep and wakefulness, as well as after the presentation of images with fixation. Since depth EEG signals were referenced to ear lobes (thereby attenuating ocular artifacts24), the presence of robust dERPs in the MTL (and especially components occurring hundreds of milliseconds after eye movement onsets) suggests an underlying modulation of neuronal activity upon REMs in both sleep and wakefulness, whose late component is reminiscent of visual-evoked activity. 
  
 Most importantly, single-unit spiking activity was robustly modulated around REMs, and this modulation was highly similar across wakefulness and REM sleep. A pattern consisting of a reduction in firing rate just before REM onsets, followed by subsequent increased spiking was observed in the average activity of all recorded units in wakefulness. A similar albeit weaker modulation was likewise observed in the average activity across all units during REM-sleep (Supplementary Fig. 2a, n=412 and n=318 in wakefulness and sleep, respectively). We searched for neurons whose activity was significantly modulated in any direction and at any time interval around REMs (see Methods section and Supplementary Fig. 2 for full details of selection process). From this unbiased approach, the stereotypical bi-phasic pattern of activity emerged in both sleep and wakefulness (Supplementary Fig. 2b). We then focused on the units showing this bi-phasic pattern in MTL regions specifically for further analysis (see Methods section and Fig. 2d,e for MTL population average and representative neurons, respectively) since neurons that showed bi-phasic modulations around REMs were more readily observed in the MTL (Table 1, 24% of all MTL units in wake (n=79 in 10 patients) and 18% in REM sleep (n=47 in 9 patients)) compared with frontal lobe regions (13% in wake and 12% in REM sleep). In contrast, non bi-phasic modulation profiles were observed as frequently across regions (Table 1). Along the same line, when searching for bi-phasic activity profiles around random time points (instead of real REMs), a significantly lower proportion of MTL neurons was found (one-tailed paired Mann–Whitney U-test, P<0.01, see Supplementary Material) but the proportion of frontal lobe neurons did not show such a difference (P=0.9). The higher proportion of bi-phasic modulations in the MTL argues against a global non-specific activity pattern. 
  
 Finally, the temporal dynamics of increased MTL firing following REMs was reminiscent of neuronal responses in the controlled visual experiment (Fig. 2d,e, right), although these were of stronger amplitude (P<0.001)—a difference to be expected given that stimuli were specifically selected to drive strong responses in the recorded neurons (Methods section). On an average, around REMs, bi-phasic neurons reduced their firing by 11% in sleep and 7% in wake at −200 ms (P<0.005, t-test) and increased their firing by 17% in sleep and 22% in wake at +250 ms (P<0.001, t-test). The post-REM increase coincided in time with the negativity observed in the dERPs. The pre-REM reduction in firing was unrelated to effects of previous REMs, as it was similarly observed also when focusing on ‘isolated’ REMs that did not occur in succession (not shown). In addition, visual responses were substantially later in time, peaking at 300 ms after image onset, whereas post-REM activity peaked around 250 ms after REM onset (equivalent roughly to 150 ms after eventual fixation25). In summary, REMs in both sleep and wakefulness were associated with multiple signatures of transient neuronal activities in the MTL that were similar across vigilance states and reminiscent of visually evoked activity. 
  
 To further investigate to what extent REM-related effects were driven by motor aspects of eye movements (‘corollary discharge’) versus visual-like aspects, we further divided wakefulness into putatively ‘visual’ and ‘non-visual’ periods based on behavioural notes (for example, watching television or meeting family in a well-lit room as ‘visual’ versus lying with open eyes in a dark room as ‘non-visual’, see Supplementary Methods). The rate of w-REMs in ‘visual’ periods was significantly greater than in ‘non-visual’ periods (14.7±14.6 versus 0.7±2.8 REMs per minute, P<0.05, Mann–Whitney U-test). Analysis of evoked potentials (Fig. 3) revealed that both ‘visual’ and ‘non-visual’ epochs were associated with a significant suppression of firing rates prior to REM onsets (difference from baseline: P<0.01, between ‘visual’ and ‘non-visual’: P=0.09, Mann–Whitney U-test, N=110 units and 140 REMs across eight patients). However, only ‘visual’ epochs showed a robust increase in neuronal activity after REM onsets within the MTL (difference between ‘visual’ and baseline: P<0.05; ‘non-visual’ and baseline: P=0.33). Similarly, dERPs of ‘visual’ and ‘non-visual’ differed in their late negative potential (Fig. 3a), which was present only for ‘visual’ REMs (significant difference observed 375–475 ms after REM onset, t-test, P<0.05, FDR correction). Moreover, a controlled paradigm during wakefulness in one individual further compared neuronal modulations occurring around w-REMs with closed eyes or during darkness with saccades towards visual targets (or passive fixation). Interestingly, already at the level of EOG waveforms, eye movements with open eyes and those occurring during REM sleep were highly similar, whereas w-REMs with closed eyes during wakefulness had markedly slower kinematics (Fig. 3b). Intracranial-evoked potentials in the MTL revealed a negative deflection following image presentation that also resembled those found after REMs (shown in Fig. 2c). This negative deflection was significantly attenuated during w-REMs without visual input (Fig. 3b). Taken together, these results suggest that neuronal modulations within the MTL after REMs cannot be solely explained by a motor corollary discharge (see also Discussion). 
  
 Figure 3: Comparison of neuronal activity underlying visual and non-visual REMs. (a) REM-triggered averaging of single-unit firing rate in wakefulness, separately for epochs tagged as ‘non-visual’ (open eyes in a dark room, green) or ‘visual’ (patient watching TV/DVD or interacting with people in a well-lit room, blue). s-REMs during REM sleep are superimposed for comparison (red). Top: mean waveform of EOG traces for ‘visual’ w-REMs (blue), ‘non-visual’ w-REMs (green), and s-REMs (red) could not reveal differences between conditions. Middle: average peri-REM-time-histogram (‘visual’: N=79 units and 1,250 REMs; ‘non-visual’: N=47 units and 140 REMs) expressed in percentage change of baseline. Statistical analysis matched for sample size (n=140 REMs in both conditions) revealed a significant decrease in firing rate prior to REM onsets for both ‘visual’ and ‘non-visual’ epochs, whereas a significant increase was observed following REM onsets only for ‘visual’ w-REMs (‘visual’: P<0.05, ‘non-visual’: P=0.33, Mann–Whitney U-test). Bottom: dERP time-locked to REMs onset (‘visual’: N=287 REMs in 70 channels, ‘non-visual’: N=287 REMs in 50 channels). Number of REMs were equated across conditions (n=287). Note the negative deflection between 200 and 500 ms for ‘visual’ REMs only. Error bars show s.d. across REMs. (b) Average EOG and intracranial dERPs in one participant when performing saccades in darkness with eyes closed (cyan, N=42), eyes open in darkness (dark blue, N=47), when performing saccades to pictures presented at the periphery (green, N=55) or when being presented with images directly at the center of fixation (magenta, N=59). Top: EOG traces corresponding to the four different experimental conditions. Note the major difference in shape between the eyes closed and eyes open conditions. Bottom: MTL dERPs time-locked to the onset of saccades/image presentation. Error bars show one s.d. Note that while evoked responses following image presentation and saccades appear similar, saccades in darkness reveal a much weaker or absent modulation. Full size image (137 KB) Previous 
  
 Figures/tables index 
  
 Next 
  
 Spike-train latency, selectivity and theta phase reset 
  
 Given that the dominant pattern of neuronal activity around s-REMs included a transient increase in firing rate in the few hundred milliseconds following REM onsets, it was of interest to determine to what extent the detailed features of this activity resembled visual processing in wakefulness. In particular, a robust and recently described feature of human MTL responses to visual stimulation is the significant correlation between the latency and the selectivity of neuronal spike trains, reflecting a hierarchical processing mode: a longer latency from image presentation is more readily found in neurons responding to fewer images26. We thus examined the presence and precise onset of spike trains in individual trials following spontaneous REMs in sleep and wakefulness, as well as following controlled visual stimulation. 
  
 In MTL neurons, spike trains were detected in 23.3±1% (mean±s.e.m.) and 19.6±1% of REMs in wakefulness and sleep, respectively (N=209 and 152 units, respectively). Despite the small subset of REMs associated with spike trains, these events accounted well for the overall increase in firing rate (see Supplementary Fig. 3). Moreover, the increase in firing rate for REMs associated with spike trains was correlated across vigilance states even when regressing out the mean firing rate of each unit (Spearman's partial correlation: r=0.28, P<0.01, n=131 units in eight patients). Furthermore, we found a significant correlation between the average latency of firing rate increase in each MTL neuron (after REM onset) and its selectivity (tendency to increase firing rates only after a small subset of REMs, Methods section). Figure 4a–c present this correlation for w-REMs (Spearman's rank correlation, r=0.26, P=10−4, n=209 in 10 patients), s-REMs (r=0.33, P=10−6, n=152 in 10 patients), and controlled visual stimulation (r=0.48, P=10−8, n=142 in 9 patients). Crucially, when applying the same analysis on random time points during REM sleep (not associated with eye movements), latency and selectivity were not significantly correlated (P=0.3 and P=0.9 for sleep and wake), indicating that this relation occurred at specific moments, rather than reflecting basic properties of neuronal firing such as the average discharge rate. Moreover, in those cases where the same neurons were recorded in both wakefulness and REM sleep, the selectivity of neurons was highly correlated across vigilance states (r=0.71, P=10−23, n=131 units in eight patients, Fig. 4d) such that neurons that were highly selective in their visual responses in wake also showed spike trains following few s-REMs. This relation was conserved even when taking into account the average firing rate of these neurons (partial correlation: r=0.51, P=10−11, n=131 units in eight patients). The average latencies of neurons were also correlated across vigilance states (r=0.20, P=0.02, n=131 units in eight patients); however, this correlation was not significant when regressing out the average firing rate (partial correlation: r=0.09, P=0.3, n=131 units in eight patients). 
  
 Figure 4: Comparison of transient spike-train properties in REM sleep and wakefulness. (a–c) Scatter plot of spike-train latency (ordinate) versus selectivity (abscissa, percent of trials eliciting a spike-train after REMs or image presentations) in w-REMs (a), s-REMs (b) and in the visual stimulation experiment (c). Low selectivity: neurons responds to all REMs/pictures; high selectivity: neurons responds to few REMs/pictures. Selectivity in c is restricted to a limited number of discrete values due to the use of six images in the image presentation experiment. Note that in all three conditions a robust correlation was observed, indicating the existence of hierarchical processing along the visual-mnemonic axis. Such correlation could not be revealed in random time points during REM sleep and wake. (d) Selectivity following REMs is correlated in the same neurons across wakefulness and sleep (Spearman's rank correlation, r=0.71, P=10−23; partial correlation taking average firing rate into account: r=0.51, P=10−11). ***P<0.001. Full size image (136 KB) Previous 
  
 Figures/tables index 
  
 Next 
  
 Finally, it is well established that theta (4–8 Hz) oscillations prevail in the MTL during both wakefulness and REM sleep27 and that the phase of theta oscillations is reset with engagement of visual-mnemonic mechanisms in humans28 and monkeys29. We found comparable phase resets around 2–6 Hz (‘human theta’, see ref. 30) in s-REMs and w-REMs. A brief and broadband reset was visible at REM onsets (potentially reflecting a myogenic contamination) followed by a delayed, sustained and frequency-specific increase in phase coherence around 2–6 Hz (see Methods section and Fig. 5a,b). Such theta-band coherence was correlated across vigilance states (Pearson’s r=0.27, P<0.05, see Supplementary Methods). Following controlled visual stimulation, stronger phase reset was observed in the MTL and the maximal effect occurred at similar time–frequency windows (Fig. 5c). When considering MTL regions separately (Fig. 5d), hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus showed strong phase resets, while the entorhinal cortex did not show phase coherence above chance levels. These effects were consistant across vigilance states (analysis of variance, effect of regions: P<0.005, F=4.8; effect of state: P=0.4, F=0.6). Similar differences between the theta-phase coherence across MTL regions were observed during controlled imaged presentation. The stronger and delayed effects during controlled visual fixation (in comparison with REMs) mirrored those found in dERPs and single-unit firing rates (Figs 2 and 3). Thus, the temporal dynamics of MTL activity were similar during REM sleep and during visual processing in wakefulness, possibly reflecting a partial conservation of the hierarchical processing in the visuo-mnemonic pathway. ||||| Seeing an imaginary scene (Image: Victor Habbick Visions/Getty) 
  
 Your body may be still, but as you dream, your eyes can flicker manically. The rapid eye movement stage of sleep is when we have our most vivid dreams – but do our flickering eyes actually “see” anything? 
  
 It is a question psychologists have been asking since REM sleep was first described in the 1950s, says Yuval Nir at Tel Aviv University in Israel. “The idea was that we scan an imaginary scene,” says Nir. “It’s an intuitive idea, but it has been very difficult to provide evidence for it.” 
  
 Until now, much of the evidence has been anecdotal, says Nir. “People who were woken up when their eyes were moving from left to right would say they were dreaming about tennis, for example,” he says. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 More evidence comes from a previous study that monitored the sleep of people who have a disorder that means they often physically act out their dreams. Their eye movements matched their actions around 80 per cent of the time – a man dreaming about smoking, for example, appeared to look at a dream ashtray as he put out a cigarette. 
  
 But most of the REM sleep these people had was not accompanied by body movements, making it hard to know for sure. And other researchers have argued that the eye flickers can’t be linked to “seeing” anything because rapid eye movements happen in both fetuses and people who are blind – neither group would have experience of vision and so wouldn’t be expected to move their eyes to follow an object, for example. 
  
 In the mind’s eye 
  
 To investigate further, Nir and his colleagues monitored people who have epilepsy and have electrodes implanted deep into their brains to help with treatment. 
  
 These electrodes were mostly in the medial temporal lobe, a region that responds strongly to pictures, and allowed the team to record the activity from around 40 neurons in each volunteer’s brain as they slept. They found that activity seemed to spike around a quarter of a second after an eye flicker, just as it did when the volunteers saw an image when awake. “It is very plausible that they are looking at a dream image,” says Nir. 
  
 “It is extremely interesting… that these eye movement produce something like visual processing during dreaming,” says Michael Czisch at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, Germany. He thinks we might see visual scenes as a side effect of when memories are replayed during sleep. 
  
 Because the researchers didn’t wake their volunteers, they can’t be sure what they were dreaming, Nir says. “But we are sure that the brain is alternating between different mental imagery,” he says. “Every time you move your eyes, a new image forms in the mind’s eye.” 
  
 Journal reference: Nature Communications, DOI: 10.1038/ncomms8884 ||||| Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Time for a change of scene? 
  
 For the first time, scientists have recorded from individual brain cells during the dreaming phase of sleep. 
  
 After each rapid eye movement (REM) they recorded bursts of activity that match what happens when we are awake and we see - or imagine - a new image. 
  
 They suggest that these well-known flickering movements accompany a "change of scene" in our dreams. 
  
 The recordings were made from patients with electrodes implanted in their brains to monitor seizures. 
  
 "It's a unique opportunity to look at what's happening inside the human brain," Dr Yuval Nir, from Tel Aviv University in Israel, told the BBC. "We're very thankful to the epilepsy patients who volunteered to take part." 
  
 Dr Nir worked with colleagues from France and the US on the study, which is published in the journal Nature Communications. 
  
 Next slide please 
  
 Over the course of four years they worked with 19 different patients, recording from electrodes in several different brain areas but largely within the medial temporal lobe. 
  
 This is not a part of the brain directly involved in vision, Dr Nir said. 
  
 "The activity of these neurons doesn't reflect image processing. It's more about signalling to the brain about a certain concept. 
  
 "You can close your eyes and imagine Queen Elizabeth, and these neurons will fire. This activity implies a refresh of the mental imagery and the associations." 
  
 When the patients were awake and shown a picture, especially one associated with a memory, the researchers saw a particular pattern of activity. 
  
 "About a 0.3 seconds after the picture appears, these neurons burst - they become vigorously active," Dr Nir explained. "This also happens when people just close their eyes and imagine these pictures, or these concepts." 
  
 Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption This is the first study to record from individual brain cells during REM sleep 
  
 Intriguingly, he and his colleagues spotted a "very, very similar pattern" during sleep. In particular, these bursts arrived just after eye movements during REM sleep. 
  
 This is the phase of sleep in which we dream, and it is characterised by these occasional, very quick eye movements. 
  
 It has long been thought that these movements might reflect the visual component of dreams, but there has been no clear evidence for this - until now, Dr Nir said. 
  
 "We are intimately familiar with the activity of these neurons. We know they are active every time you look at an image, or when you imagine that image. And now we see them active in a similar way when you move your eyes in REM sleep, so it becomes very probable that the eye movements represent some type of reset, or 'moving onto the next dream frame'. 
  
 "It's almost like when I was growing up and we had slide projectors. You move to the next dream slide, if you like." 
  
 Switching not scanning 
  
 This could help to explain why unborn babies and blind people also move their eyes during REM sleep, he added. 
  
 "Even people who are congenitally blind... can still dream about their aunt coming to visit from Florida: her voice, the emotions and all the associations that go with that. 
  
 "And when the dream changes from meeting this aunt to, say, taking your dog for a stroll in the park, then the brain activity changes and this happens in sync with eye movements." 
  
 Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Our eyes flicker in spurts during the dreaming phase of sleep 
  
 Other sleep researchers welcomed the findings. Prof Jim Horne, who established the Sleep Research Centre at Loughborough University, said the study fits with our improving understanding of REM sleep. 
  
 He also emphasised that flickering of a dreamer's eyes, which only happens in brief spurts, does not mean they are surveying a scene. 
  
 "The eye movements are not actually scanning your dream - they're reorienting your visual thoughts," Prof Horne told BBC News. 
  
 "This study endorses other findings that REM sleep has many similarities to wakefulness. 
  
 "I see REM sleep as rather like the screensaver on your computer; all you need is the touch of a button and your computer leaps to life. It's very close to wakefulness. Non-REM sleep is more like when you switch your computer off, and waking up requires a process of rebooting." 
  
 Prof William Wisden, a neuroscientist at Imperial College London, was also convinced by the similarity of brain activity between awake and REM states - but he said there are bigger questions still to answer. 
  
 "The most fascinating question of all is why do we have to have REM sleep? Why does our brain have all this circuitry to do that? 
  
 "This paper doesn't answer that, but it does emphasise how similar being awake and in REM sleep are, for particular circuits in the brain." 
  
 Follow Jonathan on Twitter |||||