Samir Hussein/Getty Images 
  
 Looks like the divorce party's over. 
  
 Model Karen Elson has obtained a temporary restraining order against ex-husband Jack White, claiming the former White Stripes frontman has a violent temper and has been harassing her about their pending divorce settlement, according to court documents filed July 19 in Tennessee and obtained by E! News. 
  
 White was reportedly served with the order on July 22 and is barred, per a court order, from "any contact with wife whatsoever except as it relates to parenting time with the parties' minor children," pending a hearing scheduled for Aug. 29. 
  
 PHOTOS: Celebrity breakups 
  
 "This is a private matter. I thank you for respecting my family's privacy and will be making no further comment," Elson said in a statement to E! News. White's rep had no comment. 
  
 "Wife fears for her and the children's safety as a result of this harassment," the filing states. Elson's complaint alleges that White has contacted his ex's legal camp "in an inappropriate and aggressive manner" and made derogatory remarks about her to their business manager. 
  
 The barrage of calls and emails is "preventing her from carrying on her life in any rational way," the complaint charges. 
  
 "This pattern of husband's bullying wife into submission was a contributing factor in the demise of their marriage," the filing continues. 
  
 The British-born Elson met White when she appeared in the White Stripes' "Blue Orchid" video. They tied the knot in 2005 in Brazil and separated in 2011, heralding their split by throwing a big bash in honor of "their 6th anniversary and their upcoming divorce." 
  
 "Please help us celebrate together this anniversary of the making and breaking of the sacred union of marriage with our best friends and animals," the invitation encouraged. 
  
 Elson officially filed for divorce last year. They have two kids together, 7-year-old Scarlett and 5 1/2-year-old Henry. 
  
 "I'm not extending this anymore," White allegedly wrote to Elson in an email included in her filing, referring to their divorce proceedings. "And we're not getting lawyers involved to rip me off." 
  
 Another printout of an email included with the filing reads: "You agreed to meet without lawyers making this a f--king mess...don't go back on it YET AGAIN and cause more trouble now Karen! For gods sake stop. You've made a verbal agreement, stand by your word..you have shown me so much disrespect in the past few months and you sit there saying you want to have a better relationship with me? Haha. Jesus. You don't get it have it both ways Karen. I am NOT ever going to therapy with you and acting out some bulls--t so you can tell your friends you did the right thing." 
  
 —Reporting by Holly Passalaqua and Claudia Rosenbaum 
  
 PHOTOS: Jack and Karen were supposedly friendly celebrity exes—like these stars! 
  
 VIDEOS: ||||| Jack White's Estranged Wife: He Scares Me I Need a Restraining Order 
  
 Breaking News 
  
 -- lead singer of the White Stripes -- has been hit with a restraining order ... after his estranged wife told a judge she fears the rocker is DANGEROUS and could cause her harm.obtained the restraining order in Tennessee in July -- claiming White has an explosive and violent temper ... and has berated her in emails loaded with profanity.In the legal docs, Elson -- a model and singer -- says she fears for her own safety ... AND the safety of the couple's two young children.Jack and Karen were married in 2005 in a canoe in the middle of the Amazon river in Brazil ... only to separate in 2011. Karen finally filed for divorce in 2012.So far, no comment from White's camp. ||||| Judge slaps Jack White with restraining order, bars contact with estranged wife 
  
 Thursday, August 1, 2013 at 5:55pm By Bobby Allyn, special to The City Paper 
  
 Two years after Nashville’s Jack White and Karen Elson threw a party to celebrate the pair’s ostensibly friendly break up, Elson has sought and received a restraining order against rock star White after a flurry of harassment allegations. 
  
 “Wife fears for her and the children’s safety as a result of this harassment,” the order read, describing how White contacted his ex-wife’s paralegal “in an inappropriate and aggressive manner.” 
  
 Elson, who cares for the pair’s two children, has been tussling for months with White over parenting rights. White wants to help raise the children, although Elson maintains that White is not fit to be a parent. 
  
 White, according to the restraining order affidavit, has a violent temper and a tendency of sending harassing emails and text messages. 
  
 Elson has contacted White’s attorney about the number of phone calls and emails he was allegedly sending “pressuring her about the settlement terms for divorce.” 
  
 In one email, White wrote: “I’m not extending this anymore,” referring to a settlement. “And we’re not getting lawyers involved to rip me off.” 
  
 Recently, according to the filing, White wanted Elson to contact their kids’ private school in an effort to get their kids out of a class in which another entertainer’s child was present. White said that he feels that entertainer “ripped off” his music, the order said. 
  
 In another incident, White berated Elson when she attended the wedding of a rival musician. Again, he was upset because this entertainer also “ripped off” his music, according to the order. The musician was unnamed in the court filing. 
  
 Elson has on multiple occasions asked White to attend family counseling, but Elson says White has refused. 
  
 Elson’s attorney Rose Palermo said both sides have been working to settle the dispute privately. She had no further comment. 
  
 Cathy Speers Johnson, attorney for White, could not immediately be reached for comment Thursday afternoon. 
  
 White, the order said, contacted the duo’s business manager and made derogatory comments about Elson. “This was done to harass and embarrass wife.” 
  
 “This pattern of husband’s bullying wife into submission was a contributing factor in the demise of their marriage." 
  
 Palermo has filed a motion for a custodial psychological evaluation, which is still pending results. 
  
 White was served the restraining order on July 22. It was signed by Circuit Court Judge Philip Robinson. White is barred from having “any contact with wife whatsoever except as it relates to parenting time with the parties’ minor children.” 
  
 Furthermore, White is only allowed to communicate with Elson over email. 
  
 The two have a hearing Aug. 29 over a dispute over their two children. |||||