The report commits a total of £12.5m to new temporary flood defences in England.
The review was commissioned after 16,000 houses across northern England were flooded during the wettest December in a century last year.
Critics at the time said defences were not up to the job.
The £12.5m means the Environment Agency would have four times as many temporary flood barriers than in 2015.
Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom said the review set out "clear actions so we are better prepared to respond quickly in the event of future flooding and can strengthen the nation's flood defences".
She added: "Work is already underway towards £12.5 million of new temporary defences stationed around England, better protection for our infrastructure and new flood modelling that makes better use of data and technology."
She also said the government was investing £2.5bn by 2021 to protect families, homes and businesses from flooding.
Other recommendations from the review include:
Analysis - David Shukman, BBC Science Editor
Ministers offer communities the prospect of better protection from flooding but the report lays bare the scale of the work needed to achieve that. What does not appear in the press release accompanying the report what many would judge to be the key finding: that as many as 530 important infrastructure sites across England - water supplies, telecommunications systems and electricity networks - are still vulnerable.
And a fair question is what happens in the immediate future.  The Met Office concludes that even without the effects of climate change, storms like those like winter could bring even greater volumes of rainfall - nearly one-third more in some cases. So I asked the Environment Agency if a city like Carlisle, inundated badly last December, would be any safer this winter. Not really, came the answer, reluctantly.
The new temporary barriers would not hold back the 2m of floodwater seen last winter. The hope for the moment is that vulnerable homes have been fitted with the latest protection systems. The uncomfortable truth is that it's impossible to defend everyone all the time. But no one in authority particularly likes to say so.
The National Flood Resilience Review was set up after devastating floods last winter across parts of northern England.
Its aim was to assess how the country could be better protected from future flooding and increasing extreme weather.
During storms last December in parts of northern England, flood defences did not work in some places, forcing thousands of people from their homes over Christmas.
Dr Stephen Gibbs, chairman of the Carlisle Flood Action Group, who lives in the Cumbrian city and has been flooded twice, was critical of the Government's approach.
"The issue is Government statutory powers to say 'we will defeat flooding'," he explained.
"The Environment Agency [EA] have a pattern - they have a flood, they have a review, then they get out the [sticking plaster] and hope for the best until the next flood.
"Temporary flood defences are part of the filibustering that the EA are having to do. The Dutch defeated flooding because their senior politicians sat down and said 'How can we defeat this?' And they defeated flooding."