Video 
  
 Image Alleged high-end prostitute arrested in heroin death 0:41 California police say a prostitute injected a Google executive with heroin aboard his yacht in Santa Cruz, killing him. 
  
 Network Writers News Corp Australia 
  
 A HIGH-end hooker allegedly injected a Google exec John with heroin and then fled when he overdosed, police say. 
  
 Former Apple and Google executive Forrest Hayes, 51, was found dead on his yacht in Santa Cruz, California on November 23. 
  
 Police say prostitute Alix Tichelman meet Hayes through a ‘sugar daddy’ website and injected him with heroin. 
  
 When Hayes began suffering a fatal overdose, she packed up her things and fled instead of helping him or calling emergency services, cops allege. 
  
 Hayes, a divorced father-of-five, was found dead on his boat the next morning, November 23, by the captain. 
  
 “She showed no regard for him. She was just trying to cover her tracks,” Santa Cruz Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark told the Santa Cruz Sentinel. 
  
 “It’s an amazing case”. 
  
 CCTV footage from the boat shows Tichelman made no effort to help Hayes, but instead gathered her things, finished off her glass of wine, stepped over the body, drew the blinds shut and then left. 
  
 “She did some cleaning. She took some evidence from the scene,” said Clark. 
  
 “She showed absolutely no regard for this person she injected with heroin. She had a responsibility to provide some lifesaving effort.” 
  
 Tichelman became a suspect after police learned Hayes was a regular client, reports KRON 4. 
  
 Police identified her from the yacht’s security video — which shows Hayes having medical complications and then falling unconscious. 
  
 They then lured her in by posing as a rich client who wanted to have sex with her for $1000. She agreed to meet at a high-end hotel on the Fourth of July, where she was arrested. 
  
 Tichelman and Hayes met via website SeekingArrangement.com, which bills itself as a site “for sugar daddies and sugar babies seeking mutually beneficial relationships and arrangements.” 
  
 On her Facebook page, Tichelman describes herself as a model and make-up artist, and her social media posts include poems about heroin and her love of TV serial killer Dexter. 
  
 Police tracked her down to Folsom, California, where she lives with her parents. 
  
 Cops say they are also investigating Tichelman’s possible involvement in a death under similar circumstances in another state. 
  
 In an interview with Fixe Fetish magazine, Tichelman talked about who she has always been drawn to the dark side of life. 
  
 “I have always been attracted to the darker side,” she said. “My parents said by the time I was there I was an intense child, and already liked horror movies.” 
  
 Her Facebook page she talks about plans to move to Atlanta, her love of concealed handguns, and on June 28th writes: “It’s really nice to talk with someone about killing sprees and murdering people in cold blood … they love it too. No judgement. Yay! F*** all that positivity bullshit. Take a look around you. Life is hard and then you die.” 
  
 Tichelman was charged with second degree murder, destruction of evidence and transporting and providing narcotics. ||||| The details uncovered by investigators portray Alix Catherine Tichelman as a callous, calculating killer. Her mugshot reveals piercing, haunting eyes. And her social media trail portrays a troubled soul who battled addiction and body image issues. 
  
 The 26-year-old California call girl was indicted yesterday for allegedly leaving a Google executive for dead on his yacht after injecting him with a fatal dose of heroin. 
  
  
  
 Alix Tichelman of Folsom, Calif., confers with public defender Diane August during her arraignment in Santa Cruz Superior Courton July 9, 2014, in Santa Cruz, Calif. (Shmuel Thaler/Santa Cruz Sentinel via AP) 
  
 Shortly before Thanksgiving last year, police found Forrest Timothy Hayes, 51, dead on his yacht — named “Escape” — in the Santa Cruz Small Craft Harbor. The yacht’s security cameras show Tichelman injecting Hayes with heroin. He slips into unconsciousness, but she doesn’t call 911. She did, however, collect her belongings — the heroin and needles— casually sidestepping Hayes’s body. “At one point, she steps over the body to finish a glass of wine,” police said, adding that Tichelman did one last thing before fleeing the boat: She closed the blinds, ensuring that no one would see the body from the outside. 
  
 “She showed no regard for him,” Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark told the Santa Cruz Sentinel on Tuesday. “She was just trying to cover her tracks.” 
  
 Hayes and Tichelman met, according to investigators, through the Web site “Seeking Arrangement,” which promises to help “Sugar Babies and Sugar Daddies or Mommas both get what they want, when they want it.” 
  
 According to news reports, Hayes worked at Google’s innovation lab, where “moon shot” projects like self-driving cars and Google glass are dreamed up. An obituary written by his family describes Hayes as a beloved husband and father of five who enjoyed spending time with his family and on his boat. On a Web site that has since been taken down, friends and family shared fond memories of him, the Associated Press reported. 
  
 Tichelman’s life online tells a different story, not of a loving family but of destruction and an intense self-loathing disguised as bravado with a bustier and sultry makeup (check out her YouTube makeup tutorial at the end of the story). 
  
 “Selling my soul would be a lot easier if i could find it,” she wrote on Twitter in July 2012. “I have always been attracted to the darker side,” she said in an interview with fetish magazine fiXE, according to news.com.au. “My parents said by the time I was there I was an intense child, and already liked horror movies.” 
  
 She appears to have struggled with addiction for years. On her Instagram account, she posted a photo in May, 2013 with the tagline: “My eyes are red red red … combination of the glitter eyeliner and the medical grade I’ve been smokin on.” And in a note titled “heroin” posted on her Facebook page almost exactly a year before the alleged murder she wrote: 
  
 this private downward spiral-this suffocating blackhole 
  
 makes you feel so warm inside, 
  
 yet makes your heart so cold. 
  
 each day takes it’s toll, 
  
 your thoughts become emotionless, 
  
 your soul feels too old. 
  
 the demons whispers to me ever so lightly, 
  
 he never let’s go of his hold, 
  
 taking everything from me, 
  
 I’ll end up dying alone. 
  
 In another note titled “Thinspiration,” she revealed a struggle with body image and possibly child sex abuse: “I will be thin and pure like a glass cup. Empty. Pure as light. Music. I move my hands over my body – my shoulders, my collarbone, my rib cage, my hip bones like part of an animal skull, my small thighs. In the mirror my face is pale and my eyes look bruised. My hair is pale and thin and the light comes through. I could be a lot younger than twenty four. I could be a child still, untouched.” 
  
 In photos posted on her Facebook page in 2012, Tichelman vacillates between skinny and emaciated. In one of them she boasts “size zero … no more size two for me.” She idolized Kate Moss, who also appears several times in her timeline photos. Her Facebook and Instagram photos, a combination of provocative professional model shots and sexy selfies, reveal a scantily clad split personality: a goth in fishnet thigh highs, a pinup girl in panties, heroin chic. 
  
 Tichelman doesn’t say much about her family. The notes section of her Facebook page includes a novel-in-progress about a girl named Kat (her middle name is Catherine). It’s not clear whether it’s autobiographical, but the tale tells of an alienated teenager who turns to heroin to escape a broken home where an alcoholic mother entertains “random men.” 
  
 According to USA Today, Tichelman’s parents now live in Folsom, Calif., where her father Bart is the chief executive of a tech company, SynapSense Corp. He took the job in November 2012, a year before the alleged murder, after working with Renewvia Energy Corp., a solar power project developer in Atlanta. Tichelman was living in Folsom at the time of her arrest but previously lived in Atlanta, according to her social media accounts. 
  
 Two years ago, she posted often about a boyfriend named Dean, who gave her a black and white diamond ‘promise ring’ on June 22, 2012. There are pictures of the them together playing with baby monkeys. 
  
 In her last post on Jan. 11, 2013, she counted among her blessings “a great boyfriend, nice house, monkeys, loving family … doesn’t get any better than this I don’t think.” 
  
 USA Today identified the boyfriend as Dean Riopelle, 53, who died Sept. 24, 2013, after a heart attack, according to a newspaper obituary. Riopelle owned a nightclub called “Masquerade” and was known as “Monkey Man” because he raised monkeys on his property, according to an Atlanta indie weekly 
  
 The details of Tichelman’s tale continue to unravel. Investigators suspect she was involved in an incident in another state similar to Hayes’s alleged murder on the yacht. Santa Cruz police arrested Tichelman on the Fourth of July after an officer posed as a potential client willing to pay $1,000 for her sexual services. She appeared in Santa Cruz Superior Court on Wednesday on eight felony and misdemeanor charges including manslaughter and prostitution. Her arraignment has been postponed until July 16. Assistant District Attorney Rafael Vazquez said the investigation is ongoing and more serious charges may be filed, the AP reported. 
  
  ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| (CNN) The death of a Google executive on a yacht is raising new questions about the death of a nightclub owner on the other side of the country -- because of the possible role an alleged prostitute played in each case. 
  
 She has not entered a plea. 
  
 This video is no longer available 
  
 This video is no longer available 00:10 
  
 This video is no longer available 
  
 Two months before Hayes died, Dean Riopelle, whom Tichelman identified online as her boyfriend, died at his home in Milton, Georgia. Tichelman was there at the time, and she called 911. 
  
 "Her story was: She was in the shower, heard a large crash, and then found him unconscious on the floor," Capt. Shawn McCarty of Milton police told CNN Thursday. 
  
 "I think my boyfriend overdosed or something, he, like, he won't respond," she said in the brief call, shortly before hanging up. 
  
 The dispatcher called Tichelman back. Asked why she thought it was an overdose, Tichelman responded, "Because there's nothing else it could be." Asked whether it was accidental or intentional, she replied, "definitely accidental." He was taking painkillers and "drinking a lot too," she said. 
  
 The call cut off. The dispatcher tried at least twice more, but the phone rang and went to voicemail. 
  
 The medical examiner ruled Riopelle's death an accidental overdose from heroin and alcohol. "At the time, we never thought anything different," McCarty said. 
  
 Riopelle owned the Masquerade Nightclub in Atlanta and played in a local band. 
  
 A former band mate doubts Riopelle overdosed. "There is no way that guy did heroin, no freaking way," Allen Vine told CNN affiliate KRON 
  
 Vine said he met Tichelman shortly after Riopelle started dating her. 
  
 "He was in no shape or form, any kind of user for heroin or drugs or anything," Vine said. "He was health conscious." 
  
 Now authorities are taking a new look at that death "to make sure there's nothing (else) to it," McCarty said. 
  
 Tichelman also was arrested last year in Atlanta and charged with battery and false report of a crime. The details of that incident were unclear. 
  
 Death of Google Glass executive 
  
 Hayes, 51, had an "ongoing prostitution relationship" with Tichelman, authorities say. 
  
 Online, Tichelman has boasted of having more than 200 client relationships. 
  
 Security footage from Hayes' yacht shows her administer the injection and what happened afterward, as he was dying, police say. 
  
 "Rather than provide first aid or call 911, Ms. Tichelman proceeds to gather her belongings including the heroin and needles," the police statement reads, adding that Tichelman stepped over Hayes' body several times. 
  
 The video also shows Tichelman leaving the boat and then reaching back to lower a blind, concealing the victim's body from outside view, police say. 
  
 At court Wednesday in Santa Cruz, she was charged with manslaughter, administering heroin to another person, administering bodily harm, moving heroin across county lines, possession of heroin, destroying or concealing evidence, and prostitution. A public defender asked that her arraignment be postponed until July 16. 
  
 Police came across Tichelman in the course of investigating the death of Hayes, a Google executive who, reports say, worked on the Google Glass project, among others. 
  
 Authorities became concerned that she planned to leave the state, so detectives posing as a potential client lured her to an "upscale location" for a July 4 session costing $1,000. She was arrested when she arrived. 
  
 Google did not return messages seeking comment. Apple, where reports say Hayes previously worked, declined comment. 
  
 "I was really devastated when I heard about it," Todd Zion, who worked at Google for a short time under Hayes, told The San Francisco Chronicle . "He was a great boss. I never had a chance to thank him." 
  
 'Nice to talk with someone about killing sprees' 
  
 Tichelman describes herself as a model, makeup artist and writer on what appears to be her Facebook page. It says she formerly worked at Larry Flynt's Hustler Club and studied journalism at Georgia State University in Atlanta. 
  
 "It's really nice to talk with someone about killing sprees and murdering people in cold blood...and they love it too," a June 28 post on the page reads. "No judgement (sic). Yay! F**k all of that positivity bullsh**. Take a look around you. Life is hard and then you die." 
  
 The profile includes numerous modeling shots of Tichelman, some of them in provocative poses. By midafternoon Wednesday, the page appeared to have been deleted. |||||