The eighth season of Game of Thrones will definitely be its last, an HBO executive has confirmed. Casey Bloys, the premium cable network’s new president of programming, confirmed to journalists at the Television Critics Association’s summer press tour in Los Angeles on Saturday that the world’s favourite tits-and-dragons-themed TV fantasy drama would come to an end after two more seasons. 
  
 GoT Showrunners DB Weiss and David Benioff “have a very specific plan about the number of seasons they want to do,” Bloys said, according to the Hollywood Reporter. “If I could get them to do more, I would take 10 seasons, but we want to take their lead with what they could do and what the best version of the show is.” 
  
 In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 34 show all In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 1/34 Ramsay Bolton Fed to the hounds by his ex-wife 
  
 2/34 Tommen Baratheon Jumped out of a window 
  
 3/34 Rickon Stark Shot by Ramsay with an arrow 
  
 4/34 Grand Maester Pycelle Stabbed by little birds 
  
 5/34 Loras Tyrell Wildfire 
  
 6/34 Alliser Thorne Hung 
  
 7/34 Olly Hung #F*ckOlly 
  
 8/34 Walder Frey Ticked off the list 
  
 9/34 Shaggydog Head cut off 
  
 10/34 Summer Ripped apart by White Walkers 
  
 11/34 High Sparrow Wildfire 
  
 12/34 The Blackfish Killed off-screen… 
  
 13/34 Hodor Hold the door… 
  
 14/34 Trystane Martell Stabbed through the face by those damned Sand Snakes 
  
 15/34 Leaf Blown up saving Bran 
  
 16/34 Walda Frey and her little boy Fed to the hounds 
  
 17/34 Balon Greyjoy Thrown off a bridge by his brother 
  
 18/34 Lady Crane Fell off a chair 
  
 19/34 Mace Tyrell Wildfire 
  
 20/34 The Waif Killed in the dark by Arya Stark 
  
 21/34 Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers Fray pie 
  
 22/34 Brother Lancel Lannister Stabbed once then blown up by Wildfire 
  
 23/34 Lem Lemoncloak Hung by the Brotherhood Without Banners plus The Hound 
  
 24/34 Brother Ray Hung by Leomoncloak and his gang 
  
 25/34 Three-Eyed Raven Killed by the Night’s King 
  
 26/34 Margaery Tyrell Wildfire 
  
 27/34 Khal Rhalko, Khal Brozho, Khal Qorro, Khal Forzho, Khal Moro Burnt by the Mother of Dragons 
  
 28/34 Roose Bolton Stabbed in the chest by his own son 
  
 29/34 Kevan Lannister Wildfire 
  
 30/34 Smalljon Umber Beaten by Tormund 
  
 31/34 Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun That Goddamn Ramsay again 
  
 32/34 Osha Throat slit by Ramsay 
  
 33/34 Doran Martell Stabbed in the hearth by Ellaria Sand 
  
 34/34 Areo Hotah Stabbed in the spine by Tyene Sand 
  
 The show was recently renewed for a seventh season of just seven episodes. Its producers have said previously that they imagine a total of 75 episodes, of which the first six seasons comprised 60. That would leave eight more episodes for the eighth and final season, though Benioff and Weiss have also talked about season eight consisting of a mere six episodes. 
  
 With Winter having come to Westeros, production has been delayed until the weather back in the real world is sufficiently frosty, meaning the seventh season won’t reach screens until next summer. Previous seasons have premiered in the Spring. 
  
 There have also been early conversations about the prospect of a spin-off series, Bloys said. “It’s not something I'm opposed to but it has to make sense creatively,” he explained. “I’m not sure the guys can wrap their heads around it when they are about to start production. We're open to it; the guys arent opposed to it but there's no concrete plans right now.” ||||| HBO has just answered a huge lingering question about Game of Thrones. 
  
 EW asked the network’s new programming president Casey Bloys if he plans to go along with showrunners’ David Benioff and Dan Weiss’ oft-stated desire to end their fantasy hit with season 8. 
  
 Bloys said yes, that is the current plan – the first time somebody at HBO has confirmed this. 
  
 “Yes, they have a very specific plan about the number of seasons they want to do,” Bloys said at the Television Critics Association’s press tour in Beverly Hills on Saturday. “Believe me, as the new [programming executive] coming in, if I could get them to do more. I would take 10 more seasons. But we take their lead on what they think they can do the best version of the show.” 
  
 The showrunners have also planned for the eighth season to consist of merely six episodes. On that front, however, Bloys said the exact number of season eight episodes is not yet final. 
  
 RELATED: Game of Thrones: 10 Predictions for Season 7 
  
 We then asked if the team is considering a Thrones spin-off to continue the valuable franchise. Thrones is one of TV’s most watched shows with 25 million total viewers this year across all platforms. 
  
 “We’ve talked about it,” he said. “It’s something I’m not opposed to, but of course it has to make sense creatively. I’m not sure that [Benioff and Weiss] could really wrap their heads around it when they’re just about to start production [on season 7]. It’s a pretty intense production, they’re about to start production soon. I’m open to it. The guys weren’t opposed to it, but there’s no concrete plans for it at this point.” 
  
 Also, with the production delay of season seven – which will debut its seven episodes next summer – the executive confirmed the plan will take Thrones out of the running for the Emmys next year. Thrones received 23 prime-time 2016 Emmy nominations, more than any other show, but requires a heavy amount of winter location shooting for the next season (locations include a production unit filming in Iceland). 
  
 Still, Bloys pointed out, “Even if we took Thrones Emmys away this year, we’d still have more than anyone else.” 
  
 The executive was also asked about the fate of True Detective, and had this to say. 
  
 RELATED VIDEO: Sophie Turner interprets ‘that look’ between Sansa and Littlefinger |||||