Republicans don't want Mitt Romney to go away mad but they do, it seems, want him to go away. 
  
 1 of 29 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × On the trail with Romney: Top shots View Photos Washington Post photographer Melina Mara shares her favorite photos from the Romney campaign trail. Caption Washington Post photographer Melina Mara shares her favorite photos from the Romney campaign trail. Oct. 25, 2012 Bound for a rally, Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney works with staff members on his campaign bus in Worthington, Ohio. Melina Mara/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
  
 That sentiment was in full bloom following Romney's first post-election comments -- made on a phone call with donors earlier this week. On the call, Romney attributed his loss to the "gifts" President Obama's campaign doled out to young people and minorities. For many, the comments had an eerie echo of the secretly taped "47 percent" remarks Romney made at a May fundraiser. 
  
 "There is no Romney wing in the party that he needs to address," said Ed Rogers, a longtime Republican strategist. "He never developed an emotional foothold within the GOP so he can exit the stage anytime and no one will mourn." 
  
 Added Chris LaCivita, a senior party operative: "The comment just reinforced a perception -- fairly or not – that Romney, and by default, the GOP are the party of the 'exclusives'. It's time for us to move on and focus on the future leaders within the GOP." 
  
 Speaking of those future leaders, several of the candidates talked about as 2016 presidential possibilities quickly condemned Romney's comments as well. 
  
 "We have got to stop dividing American voters," said Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal. "I absolutely reject that notion, that description ... We’re fighting for 100 percent of the vote." Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker added that the Republican party isn't "just for people who are currently not dependent on the government." 
  
 The strong intraparty reaction -- just nine days after Romney loss the presidential race -- speaks to the desire within the professional political ranks of the Republican party to move on as quickly as possible from an election that badly exposed their weaknesses. 
  
 The prevailing opinion among that group is that there is much work to be done and that Romney will have a hand in almost none of it. Put more simply: Thanks for playing. Now go away. 
  
 Here's how conservative columnist Matt Lewis put it in a tweet: 
  
 I'd like to see Romney and his team go out gracefully. (Yes, that requires actually... going away.) — Matt K. Lewis (@mattklewis) November 15, 2012 
  
 Romney, of course, likely doesn't share that opinion -- still reeling from an election that he quite clearly expected to win but, well, didn't. (And didn't even really come close to winning.) 
  
 What Romney seems most interested in doing at this point is rehashing why he didn't win -- with an emphasis (at least in his comments to donors) on what was wrong with voters, not what was wrong with his campaign. 
  
 That MO, while understandable for someone who has spent the last six-plus years of his life running for president, is tremendously problematic for a party that needs to get away from the stereotype that it is of, by and for white, affluent men even at a time of growing diversity in the country and the electorate. 
  
 "The recent comments about what happened in the election are 100 percent wrong," said Steve Schmidt, who managed John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign. "The 47 percent comments represent both a fundamental misunderstanding of the country, they offer a constricted vision of the Republican party and the potency of a big tent conservative message. " 
  
 Former Virginia Rep. Tom Davis was even more blunt: "It shows a huge misreading of the electoral landscape. A rather elitist misread. Where does he think his votes came from in rural America?" 
  
 Also worth noting: The White House was quick to jump on Romney's remarks. "That view of the American people of the electorate and of the election is at odds with the truth of what happened last week," Carney said Thursday morning. 
  
 Here's the two-pronged problem for Republicans at the moment: 1) Romney has no motivation to toe the party line now, and refrain from making such comments, given that he will never again be a candidate, and 2) even if Romney quietly steps aside now, the party is left without any sort of elder statesman to help broker future policy and political fights. 
  
 To the latter point: While Democrats have Bill Clinton as their triager-in-chief, using his gravitas to help extend and articulate the Democratic brand, George W. Bush seems perfectly content to spend the rest of his days outside of the public spotlight in Texas. And, while John McCain remains an active force in the Senate, he was never someone that Republicans truly saw as one of their own. Now, in Republicans' best case scenario, Romney is headed to that same path of obscurity. 
  
 Read more from Washington Post Politics 
  
 Romney: Obama won because of 'gifts' to youths, minorities 
  
 Wonkblog: Mitt Romney's ugly vision of politics 
  
 Fact Checker: John McCain's Benghazi sideshow ||||| In 1952 Adlai Stevenson was the presidential nominee of the Democratic party and lost. He was renominated in 1956 to face Dwight Eisenhower again. And again he lost. There are some other cases like this in American history. Grover Cleveland actually won two non-consecutive terms in office. William Jennings Bryant was nominated multiple times. 
  
 But on balance America has never had party leaders in the way that is natural in parliamentary systems. And in recent years, with nominees usually having little organic connection to party infrastructure or deep base of support, the pattern has become even more merciless and total. 
  
 Michael Dukakis is perhaps the most glaring example since he had so little national profile to return to and was viewed as such a poor candidate. But something similar, if less extreme, can be said of John Kerry and Walter Mondale and Bob Dole and John McCain. 
  
 But I think we may be in even new territory with Mitt Romney’s shuffle off the national stage. It’s not too much to say that Romney is now uniting the country across party lines that he’s someone who should leave as soon as possible and not say anything publicly again. Actually scratch that. Democrats are starting to think that having Romney around and continuing to dump on a broad range of Americans might be pretty awesome. 
  
 More seriously, it goes without saying that Romney was never more than a tolerated transplant among professional conservatives. His bonafides were doubted. We know all this. So it’s ironic that Republicans are uniting in calls to get off the national stage once and for all precisely because he’s continuing to make the kind of makers-and-takers type statements you might hear on a particularly feral and untethered rightwing blog. 
  
 It’s an amazing denouement. It puts the whole race in a new, if not surprising, perspective. ||||| A handful of prominent Republicans criticized Mitt Romney for his disparaging remarks about President Barack Obama’s “gifts” to core constituencies, saying that it was the wrong message to send voters as the party tries to rebuild itself after a bruising defeat. 
  
 “I don’t think it’s helpful,” Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad told POLITICO at the Republican Governors Association conference on Thursday. “I guess my feeling is that we need to turn the page, and we need to focus on the future and not make excuses for the past.” 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset Christie: Romney is upset Jindal: 'Absolutely reject' theory PHOTOS: Hits on Mitt's 'gifts' gaffe Play Slideshow 
  
 Florida Republican Sen. Marco Rubio — a prominent Romney backer during the campaign and a possible 2016 candidate — also distanced himself from the remarks on Thursday, calling them “an analysis to donors.” 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Jindal vs. Romney) 
  
 Rubio said that as a party, “our mission should not be to deny government benefits to people who need them,” but the GOP should work to ensure “less people need government benefits.” 
  
 “I don’t want to rebut him point by point,” Rubio said of Romney. “I would just say to you, I don’t believe that we have millions and millions of people in this country that don’t want to work. I’m not saying that’s what [Romney] said. I think we have millions of people in this country that are out of work and are dependent on the government because they can’t find a job.” 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Rubio gently rebuts Romney) 
  
 The chorus of pushback from Republican officials grew louder this afternoon regarding Romney’s remarks on a donor conference call yesterday. The former GOP presidential nominee told donors that Obama had won reelection because of “gifts” to “especially the African-American community, the Hispanic community and young people,” including loan programs for students and free contraceptives for women in Obama’s health care bill. 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Mitt Romney's post-election gaffe) 
  
 The criticism comes as the party is recovering from a thumping defeat in the presidential and Senate contests on Nov. 6. By all accounts, Romney and his team expected to win, and were stunned by higher-than-expected turnout among African-Americans and Latinos, who voted for Obama by huge margins. Romney’s camp underestimated the amount of Democrats that would ultimately turn out to vote and was overconfident about enthusiasm on its side. 
  
 In the wake of the elections, many commentators — including Republicans — have criticized Romney for turning off Hispanic voters with harsh language about self-deportation and not making an aggressive push to win that voting bloc, where he was creamed. 
  
 In Las Vegas to attend the RGA conference, Florida Gov. Rick Scott called Romney’s comments “inappropriate.” |||||