PITTSBURGH (KDKA) – Leon Walls was sentenced to 10 to 20 years for his role in an East Liberty Target stabbing in 2013. 
  
 Allegheny County Judge Donna Jo McDaniel recommended a long term mental health facility, but criticized the mental health aspects of Pennsylvania’s criminal justice system, saying she doesn’t believe there is an appropriate mental health facility that can house him long-term. 
  
 The judge was also critical of Target’s naming Michael Turner as a defendant in a lawsuit claiming he helped cause the attack by bringing the encounter with Walls into the store from outside. 
  
 Judge McDaniel said Turner and others helped save the teenaged stabbing victim’s life and are heroes in her eyes. 
  
 The judge said she thinks Target went after the “heroes” to make the victims back down from their own lawsuit against the store. 
  
 Walls tearfully told the judge his mental health problems have been difficult. 
  
 “It’s been really rough,” said Walls. “I try to stop it. I pray to God to take it away. It just gets worse.” 
  
 The judge told Walls she believes he was at the time, and still is mentally ill. 
  
 Join The Conversation On The KDKA Facebook Page 
  
 Stay Up To Date, Follow KDKA On Twitter ||||| Leon Walls, 44, was sentenced to 10 to 20 years in prison for the stabbing rampage March 25, 2013. at the East Liberty Target. 
  
 VIDEO: Watch Bob Mayo's report 
  
 In June, a jury had found him guilty but mentally ill of nine counts, including attempted homicide and aggravated assault. The judge who sentenced the homeless man told him she is sorry to say there's no space at prison mental health facility available to treat for his illness while he's locked away. 
  
  
  
 Target store security camera video showed during the trial illustrated Leon Walls' rampage -- his stabbing of Allison Meadows, 16, and injuring of others, including Michael Turner, who came to the teen's rescue. 
  
  
  
 Despite suffering injuries from the incident that still plague him, Turner told his attacker today from the witness stand that he bears no hard feelings. 
  
  
  
 "I just basically forgive him. You know, the guy is sick. How can you hold anything against someone that's sick? The only thing you can hope for is the best for him," Turner said. "I just wish the best for him because I know he has a sickness and he needs help." 
  
  
  
 Walls has schizophrenia and has experienced hallucinations. He apologized to the victims and their families. 
  
  
  
 "It's been rough. I try to stop it. I pray to God, 'Just take it away.' It just got worse, " Walls told the judge. 
  
  
  
 Judge Donna Jo McDaniel told Walls she believes he was mentally ill at the time of his rampage and still is mentally ill . She said she's sorry there's no prison mental health facility treatment for him, due to budget cuts. 
  
  
  
 Meanwhile, Turner is being sued by Target. It claims he was partly responsible for the violence spreading in the store during the incident. 
  
  
  
 The judge expressed her support for his actions that day. 
  
  
  
 "You saved that girl's life," McDaniel said. "I hope if I'm ever in trouble, you're behind me. You're a hero." 
  
  
  
 "That was very uplifting. I felt so great about that. I mean I've been going through so much and to hear that, I'm lost for words," Turner said. "I just need some help, if anyone out there can help me. I have no attorney, so I can't really speak on that." 
  
  
  
 Turner said he suffered a fractured pelvis in the incident and has bone fragments in his blood as a result. He said he's currently on blood-thinning medication because of a blood clot in his leg. 
  
 Watch the report by Bob Mayo tonight on Pittsburgh's Action News 4 at 6 p.m. Follow his updates on Twitter @BMayo_WTAE. 
  
 Surveillance video, which showed Walls holding Meadows at knifepoint and stabbing her while witnesses tried to tackle and subdue the armed man, was used as evidence during the trial. 
  
 VIDEO: Watch Bob Hazen's report and interview with the Meadows family 
  
 RAW VIDEO: Watch the surveillance footage of Target stabbing 
  
 SLIDESHOW: Images from the Target stabbing surveillance video 
  
 The Meadows family, of Chattanooga, Tennessee, was visiting Pittsburgh when Allison was attacked. She spent several days at UPMC Children's Hospital. 
  
 PHOTOS: 'Crazy, horrible' scene at East Liberty Target(March 2013) |||||