U.S. District Judge Sim Lake, who presided over Skilling's trial and imposed the original, 24-year sentence, will have the final word on the deal. But Lake has been kept apprised of the negotiations, holding private conference calls with prosecutors and defense attorneys as recently as Wednesday. 
  
  
  
 Officially, the agreement would reduce Skilling's sentence to around 14 years from the current 24. But with time off for good behavior and credit for time served, he could be free in as little as four years, if the judge approves the deal. 
  
  
  
 "The proposed agreement brings certainty and finality to a long painful process," said Skilling's longtime defense attorney, Daniel Petrocelli. "Although the recommended sentence for Jeff would still be more than double any other Enron defendant, all of whom have long been out of prison, Jeff will at least have the chance to get back a meaningful part of his life." 
  
  
  
 Justice Department spokesman Peter Carr said the proposed deal would allow victims to get back some of what they are owed. 
  
  
  
 "Mr. Skilling will no longer be permitted to challenge his conviction for one of the most notorious frauds in American history, and victims of his crime will finally receive the more than $40 million in restitution they are owed," Carr said. "This agreement ensures that Mr. Skilling will be appropriately punished for his crimes and that victims will finally receive the restitution they deserve." ||||| Article Excerpt 
  
 The last great battle of the decadelong legal war over the crimes at Enron Corp. is poised to come to an end. 
  
 Enron's incarcerated former president and CEO Jeffrey Skilling and the Justice Department have reached an agreement to recommend that his federal prison sentence be reduced to as little as 14 years from 24 years. Under the deal, Mr. Skilling would halt further attempts to have his conviction overturned, and more than $40 million seized from him as part of the case would also be freed up for distribution to victims in the Enron affair. 
  
 The agreement partly grows ... |||||