PENSACOLA, Fla. — Anyone listening to Rush Limbaugh’s radio show Tuesday could be forgiven for thinking that Judge Roger Vinson has the federal government dead in his sights. 
  
 Mr. Limbaugh spent some time profiling Judge Vinson, a senior judge on the Federal District Court in Pensacola, who had just announced he would allow a legal challenge to the new health care law to advance to a full hearing. The conservative radio host informed his listeners that the judge was an avid hunter and amateur taxidermist who once killed three brown bears and mounted their heads over his courtroom door to “instill the fear of God into the accused.” 
  
 “This,” Mr. Limbaugh said, “would not be good news” for liberal supporters of the health law. 
  
 But, in fact, Judge Vinson has never shot anything other than a water moccasin (last Saturday, at his weekend cabin), is not a taxidermist and, as president of the American Camellia Society, is far more familiar with Camellia reticulata than with Ursus arctos. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Apparently, Mr. Limbaugh had fallen prey to an Internet hoax. 
  
 On Sunday night, and again Monday morning, someone identified only as “Pensacolian” edited Judge Vinson’s Wikipedia entry to include the invented material. The prankster footnoted the entry to a supposed story in The Pensacola News Journal. The article — like its stated publication date of June 31, 2003 — does not exist. The same person who posted the information removed it on Tuesday afternoon, Wikipedia logs show. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 As calls flooded in about Mr. Limbaugh’s depiction, Judge Vinson, 70, took it all in stride. “I’ve never killed a bear,” he said Wednesday, “and I’m not Davy Crockett.” 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 His wife, Ellen, was less amused. “It offended me,” she said, “because I don’t think you should be able to broadcast something nationally if you can’t verify it.” ||||| No matter what Rush Limbaugh says, Senior U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson has never killed any bears, and he isn't a taxidermist on the side. 
  
 Actually, he's a flower guy, camellias in particular. 
  
 On his radio program Tuesday, Limbaugh said Vinson, the Pensacola judge presiding over a legal challenge to President Barack Obama's health care reform, was an "avid hunter" who once had severed bear heads mounted in the court room to intimidate defendants. ... ||||| "Everybody in the world knows you don't believe anything on Wikipedia," Rush Limbaugh told his listeners last year. So, uh, it must be embarrassing for him that he just used Wikipedia as a source—and got his facts wrong. 
  
 On Tuesday, Limbaugh told his listeners about Judge Roger Vinson, of the Federal District Court in Pensacola, Florida, is presiding over a legal challenge to the country's new health-care reform law. Here's a transcript, quoting liberally from Vinson's Wikipedia article: 
  
 Who is this judge? Judge Clyde Roger Vinson is a Ronald Reagan appointee. Judge Clyde Roger Vinson is an avid hunter. He's an amateur taxidermist. Do you know what a taxidermist is? That's right. For our liberal caller today, this would not be good news. A taxidermist stuffs dead game. If you go into a big, all-male club, you'll see some moose head over the fireplace. A taxidermist is responsible for it. "After a 2002 hunting trip during which he killed three brown bears, Vinson had their heads mounted over the door through which defendants must pass to enter the courtroom. At the time Vinson said the sight of the severed bear heads would ‘instill the fear of God' into the accused. The heads were removed in June 2003," it didn't even take a year (laughing) "following complaints by local defendants' rights groups." 
  
 What a scary, conservative-sounding judge! Too bad none of that is true. Judge Vinson is not much of a hunter ("I've never killed a bear, and I'm not Davy Crockett," he said in a statement). In fact, his main hobby is horticulture: He's the president of the American Camellia Society. As his wife Ellen asked The New York Times, rhetorically: "Can you imagine the president of the American Camellia Society having three stuffed bears in the courthouse?" (No, we cannot, but we also are having trouble imagining the president of the American Camellia Society, period.) 
  
 When Limbaugh was called out over the incorrect information, a spokesman insisted that the story had come from an article in The Pensacola News Journal. Only, the News Journal says no such article ever existed. The only reference to such an article online? The footnotes to Judge Vinson's Wikipedia page, which list the article as having appeared on June 31, 2003. (June 31, in case you need a reminder, is not an actual date.) 
  
 Well, we've all been there, right? Probably, Limbaugh just didn't know not to believe everything he reads on Wikipedia. Oh, wait. He did know! In fact, he was ranting about it last October, after a series of racist quotes was misattributed to him on Wikipedia sister site Wikiquote: 
  
 I mean, everybody in the world knows you don't believe anything on Wikipedia because anybody can go in there and put anything on that they want to unless you succeed in getting your site locked, and I don't even care about that. Wikipedia is as irresponsible as anything else. Anybody can post anything they want on there. But these are the professionals! They're supposed to check this stuff. 
  
 You're exactly right, Rush! Broadcast professionals are totally supposed to check on this stuff. What's that you say? People who don't fact-check are "literal professional scum"? 
  
 Whatever happened to journalists calling people and saying, "Did you actually say this? I'm doing a story on blah, blah, blah. Did you actually say this?" They didn't want to take the chance I didn't say it. They wanted the excuse to run the fabricated quote. They wanted the opportunity to do it. These people are scum. They are literal professional scum and they are responsible in many ways for the deteriorating standards and quality of journalism. They are leading the pack. They are found on both the news side and the sports side, and they are doing everything they can to promote disunity and discord throughout our culture and society while holding themselves up in their own minds as great unifiers and people who care only about social justice. When they're basically just incompetent, irresponsible, impersonators of journalism. 
  
 "Incompetent, irresponsible, impersonators of journalism." Yeah, that sounds about right. 
  
 [Pensacola News Journal; NYT; pic via Getty] |||||