Marital bliss, meet divorce hell. Kim Kardashian 's marriage to Kris Humphries is so mired in court that a settlement is looking out of reach and a trial doesn't appear likely until next year."To say I am frustrated is an understatement," the reality star's lawyer, Laura Wasser, complained to a judge Tuesday at a Los Angeles Superior Court hearing, according to E Online. Humphries, 27, a pro basketball player, is seeking to annul the August 2011 televised wedding on the grounds the marriage was a fraud. Kardashian, 31, wants a straightforward divorce. Now 10 months after the breakup, litigation shouldn't last this long, Kardashian's camp argues, due to a prenup and the fact that the two have no kids. Her side blames the delays on what it calls Humphries's foot-dragging and odd tactics.The latest weirdness, Wasser says, was leaving a deposition request for Kardashian boyfriend Kanye West in a Nordstrom's box at Kardashian's front door, when a simple delivery to the attorney's office would have sufficed.Humphries lawyer counters that Kardashian's side hasn't been helpful in providing business records needed to prepare for dozens of depositions, including stepdad Bruce Jenner. |||||  
  
 Kim Kardashian & Kanye WestKim Kardashian and Kris Humphries hate each other. This we know. From November of last year to, well, now, all we heard about was the couple's acrimonious divorce. This, of course, was peppered with episodes of Kourtney and Kim Take New York, too, where we watched Kris and Kim's painful newlywed "relationship" blossom/fall apart. Bottom line is, they never should have gotten married in the first place. It was a bad idea, and both were/are wrong in their own rights, 'kaythanksbai. And seriously, they need to give it a rest already. Well, she needs to give it a rest already. Just live your life with Kanye, girl, and move on. Don't look back. Do you. 
  
 She can't, though. Kim's still giving indirect digs to Kris. This time, by appearing in Kanye West's new video for "I Wish You Would/Could." Right as Kanye's rapping about Kris ... 
  
 If you go to the 5:12 mark, you'll see Kim appear like a vision. She appears right when Kanye says: "I’ll admit I fell in love with Kim / ’round the same time she fell in love with him. / Well that’s cool, baby girl, do your thang / He’s just lucky I ain’t had Jay drop him from the team." "Him" of course referring to Kris. Watch: 
  
 Now, I get that Kanye's mainly talking about Kim, but he's also talking about Kris, too. Negatively. Why rub salt into an old wound by popping up in a video right when your new boyfriend is talking crap about your old boyfriend? Let it die already, Kim, just let it die. 
  
 Do you think Kim was wrong to appear in Kanye's video right when he was talking about Kris? 
  
  
  
  ||||| Brooklyn Nets baller Kris Humphries tried to pull a fake-out move on Kanye West, sending a deposition subpoena inside a Nordstrom box to Kim Kardashian’s house, a lawyer revealed Wednesday. 
  
  
  
 A “strange individual” showed up to Kardashian’s southern California crib July 16 and proceeded to loiter for “two to three hours” asking for her famous rapper boyfriend, Kardashian’s lawyer Laura Wasser told a judge Wednesday. 
  
  
  
 The man eventually left a Nordstrom box that was found to contain the deposition request, Wasser said at a contentious hearing in Kardashian's ongoing divorce saga. 
  
  
  
 “Our process server rang the doorbell and amazingly she answered. …He asked if (West) was present, and she said he was on the telephone,” Humphries’ lawyer Marshall Waller explained to the judge. “If Mr. West’s attorney ever calls us back, we’ll be happy to have a talk. But as a practical matter, that hasn’t happened. We’re jumping through hoops. We’ll probably have to serve him in public.” 
  
 PHOTOS: KIM AND KANYE'S VERY PUBLIC ROMANCE 
  
 Wasser complained that Humphries’ legal team is dragging out the divorce to “take down reality TV,” revealing that Kardashian has already spent $250,000 on attorneys’ fees. 
  
  
  
 “To say that I’m frustrated would be an understatement,” Wasser groused. “I have no idea what their claim is." 
  
  
  
 She asked for a speedy conclusion, noting that the couple was married only 72 days before Kardashian’s Halloween morning divorce filing. 
  
  
  
 Her team flew to Minnesota to depose Humphries during his off season, she said, and they planned to question his reported girlfriend this coming Tuesday in New York state. 
  
 Kris Humphries and Kim Kardashian pictured during happier times in Feb. 2011. (Kevin Mazur/WireImage) Kris Humphries and Kim Kardashian pictured during happier times in Feb. 2011. (Kevin Mazur/WireImage) 
  
 Waller argued that he was having trouble getting documents from third parties related to Kardashian’s reality show – and that he couldn’t proceed without the necessary forensic work. 
  
  
  
 He said he also wants to depose Kardashian’s famous mom Kris Jenner. 
  
  
  
 The couple had a pre-nup when they wed last Aug. 20 at a star-studded ceremony in Montecito, Calif. 
  
  
  
 Humphries, 27, claimed he was blindsided by the break-up, telling the Daily News that he loved his wife and was “devastated.” 
  
  
  
 He now believes Kardashian, 31, duped him into the marriage and wants an annulment based on fraud. 
  
  
  
 “(He believes) that Ms. Kardashian had no intention to proceed with this marriage, that it was basically a contrivance for the benefit of her television show and to make money,” Waller told the judge Wednesday. 
  
  
  
 The judge ordered the parties back to court Nov. 28, saying it was likely he’d set a date for trial then. 
  
  
  
 Reports have claimed the couple scored some $10 million off the marriage, which was featured in the E! special "Kim's Fairytale Wedding: A Kardashian Event.” 
  
  
  
 Kardashian said her divorce decision followed “careful consideration.” 
  
 ndillon@nydailynews.com ||||| Kris/Kim Divorce Serves Kanye West In Nordstrom Box 
  
 Kris Humphries Serves Kanye West in Nordstrom Box in Kim Kardashian Divorce 
  
 Breaking News 
  
 ' lawyer engineered a sneak attack by trying to serve a subpoena onby putting it in a Nordstrom box and sending it to's house.Kim's lawyer, disso queen, told the judge in the divorce case about the ploy during a hearing that is still going on.Wasser groused to the judge ... Kim has already racked up $250,000 in attorney's fees, yet it's unclear exactly what Kris wants out of this.Wasser said she's heard the reports that Kris and his lawyers want to put reality TV on trial, and there seems to be evidence to back that up. Wasser noted that Kris has servedwith a subpoena and NBC Universal and Bunim/Murray, which produces the Kardashian reality shows.Wasser said she's perplexed as to why Kris Humphries thinks the marriage was a fraud -- because he went in eyes wide open.Kris Humphries' lawyer,told the court he wants to prove the marriage was a fraud, which Kim wanted solely to benefit her reality show. He says he wants to be armed with information about the show before taking Kim's deposition.Kim's lawyer, Laura Wasser followed up by asking why it's so important for Kris to get an annulment. Waller did not answer. Wasser then said she intends to get Kris to pay every penny of Kim's attorney's fees.On her way out of court, Wasser said, "We're just moving forward. My client just wants to be divorced." 
  
 Neither Kim nor Kris was in court today. |||||