F Train Derails in Queens View Full Caption 
  
 QUEENS — A Manhattan-bound F train derailed just south of the 65th Street station in Woodside Friday morning, sending four passengers to area hospitals and causing minor injuries to 19 others, officials said. 
  
 The express train, which had 1,000 straphangers on board, had passed through the station at 65th Street and Broadway when it derailed about 10:30 a.m., sending six of its eight cars off the rails, MTA CEO Tom Prendergast said, adding that the cause of the derailment was still under investigation. 
  
 "It started shaking violently. Suddenly it just braked really hard. A lot of people were crying," said Matt Kennedy, 20, who was traveling to Williamsburg. 
  
 Emergency crews boarded each car to help keep passengers calm, officials said. They eventually evacuated them by walking them through dust filled tunnels to a pair of ladders located between subway stations just south of the 65th Street station, and directed them to climb up to an emergency grate in the sidewalk, passengers and the MTA said. 
  
 F Train Derailment View Full Caption Matt Kennedy 
  
 "They led through the cars and took us out the back onto the tracks. They had shut the power off by that point," said Arnie Zambrano, 32, of Kew Gardens. 
  
 "They had a ladder and helped everyone on. The fire department had flashlights. You'd think it was gritty and dark, but it wasn't bad at all. It was a pretty sturdy ladder and it led us outside through an open grate. We just came up from the ground between stops," Zambrano added. 
  
 All passengers were evacuated within an hour of the derailment, MTA officials said. 
  
 Transit officials said they would restore local service to the Broadway line by the evening rush hour adding that crews planned to work through the weekend to restore full service by Monday, Prendergast said. 
  
 He added that the derailed cars would remain on the express track preventing any express service along the corridor during the Friday evening rush. 
  
 "It will impact rush hour capacity, but we will be able to run trains, which is exceptionally important," the transit president said. 
  
 The original Queens Boulevard line was built in the 1930s, but all the track has been replaced at least once since the early 1980s. 
  
 The cause of the accident is still under investigation, Prendergast said. The last subway train derailment was last year, May 29, 2013, Prendergast said. 
  
 "We run 8,000 trains a day," he said. "The system is very safe." 
  
 Queens Senator Michael Gianaris blasted the MTA, calling the accident "unacceptable." 
  
 "Every New Yorker should feel safe on the subway," he said, "and I hope the MTA will immediately conduct an investigation to find out how this happened as well as a full safety review of this and any other train line that may pose a risk of derailment." 
  
 A Manhattan-bound E train stuck behind the derailed F was also evacuated about an hour after the accident, an MTA spokeswoman said. The train was towed back to Queens Plaza, MTA officials said. 
  
 Though the injuries were minor, the incident still left some passengers rattled. 
  
 Angela Forbes, 56, of Jamaica, was on her way to Manhattan, riding in the second car when the F train came to a sudden halt. 
  
 "I remember the moment of impact. All of the sudden, it felt like the train hit something and you heard this screeching sound," she recalled. "There were sparks and smoke coming into the car." 
  
 The initial reaction was anything but calm, she said. 
  
 "Everyone went into a panic. People were screaming and crying. It was surreal," Forbes said. "You watch Pelham 1, 2, 3 and all these movies and you'd never think you'd be part of this. It was an experience I couldn't forget." 
  
 Irvelle Cadet, 24 of Jamaica, started feeling turbulence between the Roosevelt and 65th Street stations. 
  
 "It started a little bumpy, but then it got worse," said Cadet, who was on her way to an interview in Brooklyn. "We felt like we were bouncing out of our seats." 
  
 She said when crews evacuated passengers they walked through the train cars, including the derailed cars, which tilted to one side. 
  
 "It was a serious tilt," she said. 
  
 Ididia Nisanov, 17, who was en route to Rockefeller Center, said she saw sparks fly during the derailment. 
  
 "Boom! We flew off, fire, sparks and smoke. Smoke was everywhere," said Nisanov. 
  
 Lydia Wong, 66, who was on her way to Chinatown from Forest Hills, said thick smoke poured into her car, choking her. 
  
 "The train stopped moving and then smoke was inside. I had trouble breathing," said Wong. 
  
 Riders said the train's crew acted quickly to keep passengers calm, explaining to them what had happened and how they would leave the tunnel. 
  
 "They handled it professionally and quickly. It was a little shocking and unnerving. The conductor came out and explained. They didn't try to hide anything," said La Troya Dawson, 29. 
  
 The fire department said the passengers remained calm throughout the ordeal and allowed rescuers to swiftly evacuate all the trains in about two hours. 
  
 "Of course we give the passengers credit," FDNY Assistant Chief James Leonard. "This is New York." 
  
 To accommodate commuters while service is restored, shuttle buses will take passenger between Forest-Hills-71 Ave and Queens Plaza and between Forest Hills-71 Ave and 21st St-Queensbridge. Straphangers can also take the 7 train as an alternate route. 
  
 Weekend work scheduled on the 7 and J lines has been postpone to accommodate passengers. 
  
 Riders were directed to check www.mta.info for updates about train service. 
  
 Jeanmarie Evelly, Rosa Goldensohn and Trevor Kapp contributed reporting. ||||| The F train slithered across Woodside, Queens, without incident at first, its passengers bound for jobs and late-morning appointments in Manhattan and Brooklyn. 
  
 But as the train hurtled past the 65th Street station around 10:30 a.m., passengers said, the ride turned earthquakelike: Standing passengers tumbled to the floor, the train ground to a stop and travelers peered through the car windows to find themselves listing to the left of the tracks. 
  
 The authorities said the middle six cars on the eight-car train had derailed, causing 19 injuries — four “potentially serious,” according to the New York Fire Department — and setting off a wide-scale effort to reach about 1,000 passengers who were stranded underground. 
  
 “Nobody really knew whether or not the train was going to roll,” said Bryan Greene, 30, who was heading to his office in Union Square. “Everyone was waiting for that moment to come, and when it didn’t, it was a sigh of relief.” 
  
 The rescue lasted about two hours, as emergency personnel ducked into the dim subway tunnel to shepherd passengers out of the cars, onto the tracks and along a steep climb through an emergency exit leading to the street. 
  
 Continue reading the main story brooklyn- queens expwy. E F m Where train derailed r 65th St. station woodside Queens 
  
 Officials said some of the injuries appeared to involve chest pains and shortness of breath, not body trauma, and none are believed to be life-threatening. 
  
 It was unclear what caused the derailment, the most serious on the New York City subway system since 1991, according to transit officials, when five people were killed and more than 200 were injured after a No. 4 train jumped the tracks near Union Square. 
  
 Thomas F. Prendergast, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said at a news conference near the scene of the accident that officials would investigate the circumstances of the derailment, which caused widespread delays and service disruptions. 
  
 A nearby E train was also evacuated, with no injuries reported, after being sent to another station. 
  
 There appeared to be track damage at the derailment site, the transportation authority said, but no structural damage. 
  
 Crews restored service to the area’s local tracks only for the evening rush, and were expecting to remove the derailed train afterward. (The station typically serves as a stop for the M and R trains, but the E and F run past it on express tracks.) 
  
 The transportation authority said all service along the Queens Boulevard line would be suspended from 10 p.m. on Friday until 7 a.m. on Saturday to complete the removal. There was no estimate on when express service would return. 
  
 In interviews after their evacuation, passengers described a chaotic scene inside the cars, as a sleepy southbound ride turned jarring, sending clouds of dust through the darkness of the subway tunnel. 
  
 Bruce Bernstein, 61, who did not return aboveground until about 12:30 p.m., said he was riding in the lead car when he felt a sudden “jolt.” 
  
 Photo 
  
 “You could see there was a tilt the whole way,” he said of the cars. 
  
 After the derailment, Mr. Greene said, a large piece of wood was visible beneath the train. “It was splintered everywhere,” he said. “It was sticking out from underneath.” 
  
 Once it seemed clear that the worst was over, riders said, there were jokes about walking through the sludge of the subway tracks and suggestions that, hopefully, a boss might let them off work for the day. 
  
 “I have a whole bunch of new friends,” Mr. Greene said. “We’re going to go hang out.” 
  
 The authorities praised passengers’ composure during the rescue. 
  
 “They’re New Yorkers,” Deputy Assistant Chief James Leonard of the Fire Department said. 
  
 The derailment also roused those aboveground. 
  
 George Strickland, who works above the station, at Kew Forest Maintenance Supply, said he heard a loud “boom,” which shook the floor. He likened the episode to “that earthquake from a couple years ago.” 
  
 Though the city’s subway system has largely avoided serious derailments in recent years, the transportation authority has struggled with safety on the rails, particularly at the Metro-North Railroad. 
  
 Last May, a derailment and resulting collision on the New Haven line injured scores of passengers. In December, a derailment in the Bronx killed four passengers and injured more than 70 others. Two railroad workers have also been fatally struck on the tracks in separate episodes over the past year. ||||| A typical morning commute turned into straphangers’ worst nightmare after a packed subway train derailed in Queens Friday morning, injuring more than 19 people, cracking a rail and trapping about 1,000 people underground for hours. 
  
 Passengers described a harrowing scene as a loud screeching noise filled the tunnel just before the train came to an abrupt stop. 
  
 “The train was shaking and the cars in the front started tilting to the right,” said Melissa Delgado, 33. “I heard a pang and then a screech and then the train came to a halt.” 
  
 “It was a metal-on-metal sound and it was really loud,” said Razi Levin, 40, who was on his way to Manhattan. 
  
 The Brooklyn-bound F train ran into trouble near Broadway and 65th Street in Woodside. 
  
 Local service for the E and F trains was restored just after 5 p.m. as crews continued to feverishly remove debris from the tracks to allow rush-hour trains to pass through Queens. 
  
 Six of the eight cars derailed, causing smoke to fill the cars, inducing panic attacks and breathing issues for many of the straphangers. 
  
 View video 
  
 “It was a horrifying experience,” said Tayyib Siddiqui, 31, who was in one of the first cars. “We were calming people down, telling them the worst already happened.” 
  
 Siddiqui said people on his car thought the train was going to catch fire as smoke billowed in. Power was cut to the area quickly, which caused the ventilation system to turn off, said Deputy Assistant Chief James Leonard. 
  
 “I thought, ‘This is it, we’re not going to survive,’” Siddiqui said he thought as the train lost control. “Thank God the sparks were the worst of it.” 
  
 Many passengers feared for their lives as they felt the subway cars sway back and forth. 
  
 “I thought I was going to die,” said Jemina Asamoah, 24, who was on her way to Brooklyn when the car she was in derailed. “Thank God I’m alive.” 
  
 Angela Forbes, 56, was one of the passengers taken to Elmhurst Hospital Center to treat a knee injury. 
  
 “I’m going to be fine, but the memories are going to take a while to get over,” she said. 
  
 Forbes is concerned about the medical bills that will stack up, as her insurance company informed her she’d be responsible for covering the ambulance ride. 
  
 “I think it’s ridiculous because it’s not my fault the train derailed. I don’t think I should be responsible for that, it’s the responsibility of the MTA.” 
  
 More than 100 firefighters worked together to pull people trapped underground through street grates and keep passengers calm, according to the MTA. 
  
 The stranded passengers sat on the sweltering subway cars with little information besides a promise from the loudspeaker that “help was on the way,” said Alassane Ngaide, who jumped on the train just after 10 a.m. at the 71st Street stop in Forest Hills. 
  
 The original plan was to have the passengers walk onto a rescue train that would transport them to the next stop, but Ngaide said officials scrapped that plan and started leading passengers on an odyssey to the streets. 
  
 “I walked down the little ladder they put up against the train,” he said. “They walked us down the tracks in the dark to another ladder.” 
  
 Once above ground, passengers felt disoriented and were confused about their whereabouts. 
  
 “It was bizarre,” said Frank Lomuscio, 53, who remained calm throughout the derailment and helped a woman who was having a panic attack in his car. 
  
 The pilot and last train cars did not derail, but the six cars in the middle did, FDNY Chief James Hall said at a press conference. The motorman and conductor are undergoing drug and alcohol tests. 
  
 An MTA worker at the scene said there was extensive damage underground, including 500 feet of damaged track, a broken rail and five bent crash columns. 
  
 At the time of the derailment, the train was on a long curve that leads to a downhill run that has a speed limit of 35 miles per hour. While it is still unclear whether excessive speed played a role in the derailment, some passengers said they felt like the train was moving faster than usual. 
  
 “It was definitely moving at a fast pace,” said Lomuscio, an attorney sitting in the second car. 
  
 Lomuscio said this was just “another Friday in the Big Apple” and said he gave up trying to get into work. He took the MTA up on their offer to honor commuter’s MetroCards for a handful of stations. 
  
 Despite all the chaos, Leonard said, he was impressed with the way passengers dealt with the emergency situation. 
  
 “Of course you have to give it up to the passengers,” he said at the press conference Friday afternoon. “They are New Yorkers, they kept their heads and did very well.” 
  
 Subway service in Queens on the E, F, M and R lines is suspended and the MTA recommends passengers use alternative routes and plan for major delays. Limited access to shuttle busses is also available for E and F train riders. |||||