Derek Main stabbed Andrew Main, 57, in the neck before telling a 999 operator that his father had "gone awol" and started hitting himself.
Main, 37, was originally charged with murder but prosecutors accepted his plea of culpable homicide on the basis of diminished responsibility.
He was returned to the State Hospital at Carstairs.
Psychiatrists agreed that his behaviour was substantially impaired because of "abnormality of mind" at the time of the killing.
Main admitted assaulting his father by repeatedly punching, kicking and striking him on the head and body and killing him with a pair of scissors on 7 July, 2014 at Corrie Avenue, Stenhousemuir.
The court heard that prior to the killing, Main had been at his father's home where he was drinking.
Mr Main Sr returned home after a night out in Falkirk town centre.
He later contacted a taxi firm to take him to The Valley, where his son lived.
Eight minutes later a further call was made by the son asking for a taxi or an ambulance to attend.
Advocate depute Angela Gray said: "During that eight-minute window, between the two calls to the taxi company, we can deduce that the fatal attack on the deceased took place."
After the taxi arrived, the driver saw Main had blood on his hands and clothing and told him to get out of the vehicle.
Main then phoned the emergency services asking for an ambulance and told the operator: "My dad's gone awol, he said he didn't want to live so he started hitting himself.
"I think he's dying, can you hurry up, he's dying."
Police arrived at the address and found Mr Main Sr lying on the living room floor, heavily bloodstained, with a stab wound to the neck.
The court heard that after the fatal attack Main was considered to be fit to plead but following further psychiatric assessment it was decided he was not fit for trial last year.
He was sent to the State Hospital at Carstairs and was found to be suffering from psychotic symptoms, including hallucinations and delusions.
Main was returned to Carstairs until his next court appearance.