NEW YORK Broadway theaters will dim their marquees on Friday evening in memory of Tony Award winner and iconic Hollywood screen actress Lauren Bacall, who died on Tuesday at the age of 89. 
  
 Bacall, whose film roles and romance and marriage to actor Humphrey Bogart made her a legend during Hollywood's Golden Age, died in New York, where she had lived for several decades. 
  
 Funeral arrangements are still pending. 
  
 The Broadway League, which represents producers and theaters, said the marquees will be dimmed for a minute in her honor. 
  
 "Lauren Bacall had a distinct presence on stage and screen during a career that spanned decades," said Charlotte St. Martin, executive director of The Broadway League. 
  
 "Along with her talent and memorable performances, her timeless beauty and witty intelligence will be remembered," she said in a statement. 
  
 During her long career, Bacall, who was known for her husky voice and sultry style, appeared in more than 30 films, including "To Have and Have Not," "The Big Sleep" and "Key Largo" with Bogart. 
  
 She won two Tonys for the Broadway musicals "Applause" in 1970, based on the film "All About Eve," and for "Woman of the Year" in 1981, and was awarded an honorary Oscar in 2009. 
  
 Bacall was married to Bogart for a decade until his death in 1957. She married actor Jason Robards Jr. in 1961. They divorced after eight years. 
  
 She is survived by her sons, Stephen Bogart and Sam Robards, a daughter, Leslie Bogart, and six grandchildren. 
  
 (This version of the story corrects paragraph 8 to indicate the musical "Applause" was based on the film "All About Eve." Bacall appeared in the musical only.) 
  
 (Reporting by Patricia Reaney; Editing by Bernadette Baum) ||||| Pop culture Robin Williams honored on Broadway with dimmed lights, 'Aladdin' tribute Aug. 14, 2014 at 8:08 AM ET 
  
 Tweet email 
  
 Broadway was a darker place Wednesday as lights dimmed at 7:45 p.m. for one minute to honor the late Robin Williams, who died Monday. 
  
 Though Williams was best known for his TV and film work, he occasionally appeared onstage as well. In 1998 he co-starred opposite Steve Martin off-Broadway in "Waiting for Godot"; in 2002 he had a limited-run one-man show, "Robin Williams: Live on Broadway"; and in 2011 he starred in the Broadway drama "Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo." 
  
  
  
 Related story: Norm Macdonald recalls 'funniest man in the world,' Robin Williams 
  
 "Robin Williams was a comedic genius with limitless talent and stunning versatility who left this world far too early. He made an impact on everyone he met or entertained," Charlotte St. Martin, the executive director of the Broadway League, told The Hollywood Reporter. 
  
 Martin tweeted on Monday after news broke of Williams' death. 
  
 So did James M. Iglehart, who won a Tony for portraying the frenetic genie in Broadway's "Aladdin" adaptation that Williams had created in the 1992 movie. 
  
 Iglehart and the "Aladdin" cast paid tribute to Williams onstage on Tuesday with a reprise of "Friend Like Me," one of the production's show-stopping tunes. 
  
 "Aladdin" composer Alan Menken told Billboard Tuesday, "If I had only watched Robin Williams on the TV screen, in the movies or on stage, I would consider myself blessed for having simply experienced his brilliance, his joy, his humor and his heart. The fact that I had the honor of sharing the creative process with him is an honor and a privilege that I will cherish for the rest of my life." 
  
 Related story: Late-night hosts pay tribute to 'best talk show guest ever' Robin Williams 
  
 Follow Randee Dawn on Google+ and Twitter. 
  
 Tweet email |||||