L/Cpl James Brynin, 22, who served with the 14th Signal Regiment (Electronic Warfare), was shot in Helmand Province on 15 October 2013.
Another British soldier told the court he fired the fatal shot in the belief he was shooting a Taliban insurgent.
The case has been referred to the Service Prosecuting Authority.
West Sussex senior coroner Penelope Schofield adjourned the inquest at Chichester Coroner's Court under Rule 25(4) Coroners and Justice Act 2015.
It states: "A coroner must adjourn an inquest and notify the Director of Public Prosecutions, if during the course of the inquest, it appears to the coroner that the death of the deceased is likely to have been due to a homicide offence and that a person may be charged in relation to the offence."
The inquest was adjourned on Thursday after hearing six days of evidence.
"The case will stand adjourned pending any decision by the Service Prosecuting Authority," a statement released on behalf of the coroner said.
A Ministry of Defence (MoD) spokesman said: "We note the coroner's decision to adjourn the inquest into the death of L/Cpl James Brynin, pending a further review of the case. It would not be appropriate to comment further at this time."
The Service Prosecuting Authority said it had not received a referral in relation to the incident.
In a statement, it said: "Should further evidence come to light and the Royal Military Police reopen the investigation, then the Service Prosecuting Authority will provide advice to that investigation if requested and, if the case is referred for a decision on charging, make any such decision in accordance with the Code for Crown Prosecutors."
L/Cpl Brynin, known as Jay, was born in Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex, and based at Cawdor Barracks in Pembrokeshire.
He worked as an intelligence analyst and had been selected for promotion to corporal when his patrol was attacked by enemy fire in Kakaran, north east of Lashkar Gah.
He died at the scene despite receiving "immediate medical attention", the MoD said.