Image caption The 11 April quakes created panic but there were few deaths (mostly from heart attacks) 
  
 The sequence of huge earthquakes that struck off the coast of Sumatra in April may signal the creation of a new tectonic plate boundary. 
  
 Scientists give the assessment in this week's Nature journal. 
  
 They say their analysis of the tremors - the biggest was a magnitude 8.7 - suggests major changes are taking place on the ocean floor that will eventually split the Indo-Australian plate in two. 
  
 It is not something that will happen soon; it could take millions of years. 
  
 "This is a process that probably started eight to 10 million years ago, so you can imagine how much longer it will take until we get a classic boundary," said Matthias Delescluse from the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris. 
  
 Dr Delescluse is an author on one of three scholarly papers in Nature discussing the 11 April quakes. 
  
 Sumatra sits above the collision between the Indo-Australian plate and the Sunda plate. 
  
 These vast segments of the Earth's rigid outer shell are converging on each other at a rate of about 5-10cm/yr. 
  
 The elongated Indo-Australian, which comprises much of the Indian Ocean floor, dives under the Sunda, which carries the Indonesian island. 
  
 It is friction at their boundary - the sticking and unsticking, and the sudden release of stored energy - that is at the root of so many violent quakes, such as the magnitude 9.1 event on 26 December 2004 that set off a catastrophic tsunami. 
  
 But the 11 April 2012 tremors, although also immense in scale, did not have the same impact and generated no tsunami. 
  
 This can be explained by the nature of the faulting: so-called strike-slip, where rock moves horizontally either side of the line of breakage, as opposed to vertically in tsunamigenic thrust faults. 
  
 The April tremors were also much further west, located directly on the Indo-Australian plate itself in an area of large-scale deformation and multiple faulting. 
  
 Dr Delescluse said it was evident that movement at the plate's ends was stressing the middle. 
  
 "Australia already moves with respect to India, and India already moves with respect to Australia," he told the BBC World Service Science In Action Programme. 
  
 "They are separated by a lot of faults. And if you look on Earth today, between plates you have only one fault. So, the process we are talking about is how we go from several faults to only one fault. 
  
 "That's the question - we don't know how long it takes to weaken one so that it localises all the deformation and the others stop being active. At the moment, a lot of faults in the Indian Ocean are active." 
  
 All around the world 
  
 In a second Nature paper, Thorne Lay, of the University of California, Santa Cruz, and colleagues provide some fascinating detail on this interplay of faults and how they ruptured on 11 April. Their seismic analysis indicates at least four faults were involved in the main 8.7 event, which lasted about 160 seconds. 
  
 Three of the faults were parallel but offset from each other; the fourth was perpendicular to and crossed the first fault. 
  
 The 8.7 jolt "is probably the largest intraplate (within a single tectonic plate of Earth's crust) ever seismically recorded," Prof Lay's team remarked. 
  
 The third Nature paper describes how this historic quake triggered other tremors around the world. 
  
 This effect has been noted before, but Dr Fred Pollitz, from the US Geological Survey, and co-workers were surprised by the delays involved. 
  
 Dr Pollitz told the BBC: "For the vast majority of earthquakes, you can expect an aftershock zone not to really go beyond [1,000km]. 
  
 "But it's also known that very large mainshocks - like the Japanese event we had last year, the magnitude 9 event off north-east Japan - can trigger earthquakes around the world. Most of these triggered events are small and they occur instantly as the seismic waves from the large event are passing by. 
  
 "But this April 2012 earthquake triggered many larger and potentially damaging earthquakes around the world, and with a time delay of hours or up to several days. That effectively extended the aftershock zone to the entire globe." 
  
 Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos ||||| A woman and her baby evacuate to higher ground after a strong earthquake in Sumatra in April. (Heri Juanda / Associated Press / ) 
  
 Planet Earth may be 4.5 billion years old, but that doesn't mean it can't serve up a shattering surprise now and again. 
  
 Such was the case on April 11 when two massive earthquakes erupted beneath the Indian Ocean off the coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, far from the usual danger zones. Now scientists say the seafloor ruptures are part of a long suspected, yet never before observed, event: the slow-motion splitting of a vast tectonic plate. 
  
 The first of the quakes, a magnitude 8.7, was 20 times more powerful than California's long anticipated "big one" and tore a complex network of faults deep in the ocean floor. The violence also triggered unusually large aftershocks thousands of miles away, including four off North America's western coast. 
  
 "It was jaw-dropping," said Thorne Lay, a professor of Earth and planetary sciences at UC Santa Cruz. "It was like nothing we'd ever seen." 
  
 At first, Lay wondered whether the computer code he used to analyze earthquakes was wrong. Eventually, he and other scientists realized that they had documented the breakup of the Indo-Australian plate into two pieces, an epic process that began roughly 50 million years ago and will continue for tens of millions more. Lay and other scientists reported their findings online Wednesday in the journal Nature. 
  
 Most great earthquakes occur along plate borders, where one plate dives beneath the adjoining plate and sinks deep into Earth's mantle, a process called subduction. The April 11 quakes, however, occurred in the middle of the plate and involved a number of strike-slip faults, meaning the ground on one side of the fault moves horizontally past ground on the other side. 
  
 Scientists say the 8.7 main shock broke four faults. The quake lasted 2 minutes and 40 seconds — most last just seconds — and was followed by a second main shock, of magnitude 8.2, two hours later. 
  
 Unlike the magnitude 9.1 temblor that struck in the same region on Dec. 26, 2004, and created a deadly tsunami, the April 11 quakes did not cause similar destruction. That's because horizontally moving strike-slip faults do not induce the massive, vertical displacement of water that thrust faults do on the borders of plates. 
  
 The type of interplate faults involved in the Sumatran quakes are the result of monumental forces, some of which drove the land mass of India into Asia millions of years ago and lifted the Himalayan Mountains. As the Indo-Australian plate continues to slide northwest, the western portion of the plate, where India is, has been grinding against and underneath Asia. But the eastern portion of the plate, which contains Australia, keeps on moving without the same obstruction. That difference creates squeezing pressure in the area where the quakes occurred. 
  
 The study authors say that over time, as more quakes occur and new ruptures appear, the cracks will eventually coalesce into a single fissure. 
  
 "This is part of the messy business of breaking up a plate," said University of Utah seismologist Keith Koper, senior author of one of the studies. "Most likely it will take thousands of similar large quakes for that to happen." 
  
 The quakes were also notable for triggering powerful aftershocks thousands of miles away. Though major quakes have been known to trigger aftershocks at great distance, they are usually less than 5.5 in magnitude. The April earthquakes triggered 11 aftershocks that measured 5.5 or greater in the six days that followed, including a magnitude 7. Remote shocks were felt 6,000 to 12,000 miles from the main quakes. 
  
 Fred Pollitz, a geophysicist with the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., and lead author of one of the studies, said the quakes were extremely effective in transmitting seismic wave radiation around the world. Though Pollitz said the magnitude of the larger Sumatran quake is No. 10 on the list of quakes since 1900, no other temblor has triggered so many strong aftershocks so far away. 
  
 "It's the most powerful earthquake ever in terms of capability of putting stress on other fault zones around the world," he said. 
  
 Pollitz said the quakes were likely to teach seismologists about the physics of earthquakes, particularly those along strike-slip faults. That knowledge, he said, would certainly apply to California's San Andreas fault, which is also a strike-slip fault. 
  
 Lay said that the Sumatran quakes were most surprising in that they were completely unanticipated by seismologists and that he did not expect the event to repeat any time soon. 
  
 monte.morin@latimes.com |||||