Get the latest from TODAY Sign up for our newsletter 
  
 / Updated By Scott Stump 
  
 For nearly 11 years, Michelle Knight endured unthinkable abuse as a captive in a Cleveland home. But today, her bright outlook has not been extinguished. 
  
  
  
 Ariel Castro kidnapped Knight in August of 2002 when she was just 21 years old. She was held along with two other young women until they were rescued on May 6 of last year. Knight's new book, "Finding Me," details her ordeal and how she has moved forward. She spoke with Savannah Guthrie that was previewed on TODAY Friday. The sit-down will air in its entirety as part of a larger Dateline NBC special on Sunday at 8 p.m. ET. Knight will appear live on TODAY on Monday. 
  
 "Sometimes in life, you have a dark past that makes you who you are, but it doesn't define who you are,'' Knight told Guthrie. 
  
 Knight is now focused on making the most of her life. She lives in her own apartment now and is taking cooking classes in hopes of becoming a chef. She has even changed her name. 
  
 "I felt like every brand new start needs new beginnings,'' she said. "My name is Lillian Rose Lee." 
  
 That resilience helped keep Knight, who now goes by Lilly, alive during her captivity, when her relentless abuse made her consider suicide. Knight's deep bond with Gina DeJesus, who was kidnapped by Castro in 2004 when she was 14 years old, helped Knight survive. 
  
 "There were days like he'll come in and he'll just do bad things in front of me, and I'll take her hand and I'll tell her everything's gonna be OK,'' Knight said. "One day we'll get out. One day we'll be free. One day we won't be voiceless." 
  
 Castro was sentenced to life in prison plus 1,000 years after pleading guilty to 937 counts of rape, kidnapping and aggravated murder, and he committed suicide one month into his sentence. 
  
 When her ordeal was at her worst, Knight was still able to write lines in her diary like, "Vibrant butterfly, full of life, every time I see one it reminds me how precious life can truly be." Now she feels like she has become the butterfly, ready to spread her wings. 
  
  
  
 "(A butterfly) that's able to express herself the way she wants now, and able to be free without control and no worries,'' she said. "I'm that butterfly. Freedom to fly." 
  
 This updated story was originally published May 2 at 8 a.m. ET. ||||| Michelle Knight: Cleveland Kidnapping Victim's Amazing Story of Survival 
  
 Just a year ago, Michelle Knight was chained inside a dilapidated house near downtown Cleveland, wondering if she'd ever be free."Everything in the house was unexplainable," says Knight, 33. "It happened. I don't know the reasons why."What she does know, as she told PEOPLE in an exclusive interview, is that she survived the nightmare and is finally regaining her life.Her memoir Finding Me, excerpted exclusively in next week's issue, is out May 6, the one-year anniversary of her escape from the house where she, Amanda Berry and Gina DeJesus were held for more than a decade. In it she details the abuse she suffered at the hands of her captor, Ariel Castro , and the friendship with her fellow captives that helped keep her going. "I think basically every day we told each other we'd make it out alive," she says.Since the day their rescue made national headlines, it has been a whirlwind for the 4'11" Knight. She has started cooking school, has her own apartment in Cleveland and has changed her name to Lily, "my favorite flower," to symbolize a fresh start.She and Berry and DeJesus, who are working on a book of their own, have gone their separate ways because they're all healing, Knight says, but there's no bad blood. "I love them and they love me. Hopefully we'll all get back together again."In the meantime she's savoring every moment. "I don't take things for granted anymore," she says, "not even the little things like looking out a window. I went through years of torture, and now I'm back. I'm free to fly."For more on Michelle Knight's amazing story pick up next week's issue of PEOPLE, on newsstands May 7 |||||