Reid, 24, beat number two seed Joachim Gerard 7-6 (11-9) 6-4 and will face Stefan Olsson in Sunday's final.
It is Reid's third Grand Slam singles decider of the year, having won the Australian Open in January before losing at Roland Garros last month.
Fellow Briton Jordanne Whiley lost to Aniek van Koot 7-5 6-3 in the last four of the ladies' singles.
Despite beating Gerard to win the Australian Open, Glasgow's Reid had to work hard to win a match that lasted one hour and 40 minutes.
The left-hander led 3-1 in the first set, but was broken three times, allowing Gerard to serve for the set at 5-4 and 6-5.
Find out how to get into tennis in our special guide.
However, Reid managed to break back both times to set up a tie-break and, after saving three set points, eventually took his third opportunity to win it.
Gerard began to make more errors in the second set and Reid broke twice more and establish a 5-2 lead.
The Belgian, 27, recovered to close to gap to 5-4, but Reid, backed by home support on Court 17, saved a break point when serving for the match a second time and converted his first match point when Gerard mis-hit a backhand.
Wheelchair tennis has been played at Wimbledon since 2001 but this year is the first time men's and women's singles have featured.
Reid said it felt "really special" to make the final and face Olsson, who beat top seed Stephane Houdet 3-6 6-3 6-3.
"It was a long match and the first set was really tight," he told BBC Scotland.
"I didn't feel any pressure as I had a lot of people backing me, with my own squad and members of the public. I tried to enjoy it and make the most of the moment.
"We have been waiting a while to play here and to get the chance to be the first winner, and the first British winner, is amazing. I have got to play my best tennis to win it."
Whiley, the 2015 US Open champion, faced Van Koot on Court 17 immediately after Reid's victory, but could not emulate the Scot's success.
The Ickenham-based right-hander led 5-3 in the first set but her Dutch opponent rallied to win four successive games, while saving a set point, to take the set.
Van Koot then broke Whiley twice at the start of the second set to race into a 3-0 lead and began to exert control over the match, sealing victory when the Briton sent a backhand into the net.
Whiley won the women's wheelchair doubles with Yui Kamiji at Wimbledon in 2014 and 2015 and still has a chance to complete a hat-trick of titles with her Japanese partner this year.
You can now add tennis alerts in the BBC Sport app - simply head to the menu and My Alerts section