“One year after the abduction of Chibok girls, this underlies the scale and depravity of Boko Haram’s methods” – Salil Shetty, Amnesty International Secretary-General 
  
 Satellite images, photos, embargoed report, interviews available upon request 
  
 At least 2,000 women and girls have been abducted by Boko Haram since the start of 2014 and many have been forced into sexual slavery and trained to fight, said Amnesty International on the first anniversary of the abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls. 
  
 Based on nearly 200 witness accounts, including 28 with abducted women and girls who escaped captivity, Amnesty’s new 90-page report, 'Our job is to shoot, slaughter and kill': Boko Haram’s reign of terror, documents multiple war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by Boko Haram, including the killing of at least 5,500 civilians, as it rampaged across north-east Nigeria last year and the start of 2015. 
  
 The report sheds new light on the brutal methods used by the armed group in north-east Nigeria where men and boys are regularly conscripted or systematically executed and young women and girls are abducted, imprisoned and in some cases raped, forcibly married and made to participate in armed attacks, sometimes on their own towns and villages. 
  
 Amnesty International’s Secretary General Salil Shetty said: 
  
 “The evidence presented in this shocking report, one year after the horrific abduction of the Chibok girls, underlines the scale and depravity of Boko Haram’s methods. “Men and women, boys and girls, Christians and Muslims, have been killed, abducted and brutalised by Boko Haram during a reign of terror which has affected millions. Recent military successes might spell the beginning of the end for Boko Haram, but there is a huge amount to be done to protect civilians, resolve the humanitarian crisis and begin the healing process.” 
  
 The report contains graphic evidence, including new satellite images, of the scale of devastation that Boko Haram have left in their wake. 
  
 Women abducted: Bride kidnapped on her wedding day 
  
 The 276 schoolgirls abducted from Chibok gained global attention with the help of the #BringBackOurGirls campaign. But the missing schoolgirls are only a small proportion of the women, girls, young men and boys abducted by Boko Haram. 
  
 Boko Haram take the women and girls they abduct directly to camps in remote communities or to makeshift camps such as one established in Ngoshe prison. From transit camps Boko Haram would move them to houses in towns and villages and indoctrinate them with their version of Islam in preparation for marriage. 
  
 Aisha, aged 19, spoke to Amnesty about how she was abducted from a friend’s wedding in September last year along with her sister, the bride and the bride’s sister. Boko Haram took them to a camp in Gullak, Adamawa state, home to approximately 100 abducted girls. One week later, Boko Haram forced the bride and the bride’s sister to marry their fighters. They also taught Aisha and the other women and girls how to fight. 
  
 Aisha told Amnesty: 
  
 “They used to train girls how to shoot guns. I was among the girls trained to shoot. I was also trained how to use bombs and how to attack a village. This training went on for three weeks after we arrived. Then they started sending some of us to operations. I went on one operation to my own village.” 
  
 Aisha said that during the three months that she was held captive, she was raped repeatedly, sometimes by groups of up to six fighters. She also saw more than 50 people killed by Boko Haram, including her sister. 
  
 “Some of them refused to convert. Some refused to learn how to kill others. They were buried in a mass grave in the bush. They’ll just pack the dead bodies and dump them in a big hole, but not deep enough. I didn’t see the hole, but we used to get the smell from the dead bodies when they start getting rotten.” 
  
 Executions: man survived because blade became too blunt 
  
 Since the start of 2014, Amnesty International documented at least 300 raids and attacks carried out by Boko Haram against civilians. During their attacks on towns, Boko Haram would systematically target the military or police first, capturing arms and ammunition, before turning on the civilian population. They would shoot anyone trying to escape, rounding up and executing men of fighting age. 
  
 Ahmed and Alhaji, aged 20 and 18, were seated with other men, waiting for their throats to be cut after Boko Haram took over Madagali on 14 December 2014. Ahmed told Amnesty that even though his instinct told him to run, he could not. “They were slaughtering them with knives. Two men were doing the killing...We all sat on the ground and waited our turn.” Alhaji only managed to escape when a Boko Haram executioner’s blade became too dull to slit more throats. “Before they got to my group, they killed 27 people in front of me. I was counting every one of them because I wanted to know when my turn would come.” He said that at least 100 men who refused to join Boko Haram were executed in Madagali on that day. 
  
 In Gwoza, Boko Haram killed at least 600 people during an attack on 6 August 2014. Witnesses told Amnesty how anyone trying to escape would be pursued. “The motorcycles went to surrounding areas, each street corner, where they will shoot you. They are only shooting the men.” 
  
 Thousands fled to the nearby mountains where Boko Haram fighters hunted them down and forced them out of the caves where they were hiding with tear gas canisters. The women were then abducted. The men were killed. 
  
 Scorched earth: New satellite images of the destruction of Bama 
  
 Satellite imagery commissioned by Amnesty International has enabled the organization to document the scale of devastation wreaked by Boko Haram. 
  
 This includes new before and after images of Bama commissioned for the report. These show that at least 5,900 structures, approximately 70 percent of the town, were either damaged or destroyed, including the hospital, by retreating Boko Haram fighters as the Nigerian military regained control of the town in March 2015. 
  
 Witnesses interviewed by Amnesty described how Bama’s streets were littered with bodies and how people were burned alive in buildings. One woman said: “When the military got close to the barracks [in Bama] and almost took over, they [the military] later withdrew. Then the insurgents started killing people and burning houses.” 
  
 Life under Boko Haram: children carry out stonings 
  
 The report documents the reign of terror for those under Boko Haram rule. Soon after taking control of a town, Boko Haram would assemble the population and announce new rules with restrictions of movement, particularly on women. Most households became dependent on children to collect food or on visits by Boko Haram members who offered assistance, distributing looted food. 
  
 Boko Haram enforced their rules with harsh punishments. Failure to attend daily prayers was punishable by public flogging. A woman who spent five months under Boko Haram control in Gamborou told Amnesty International how she had seen a woman given 30 lashes for selling children’s clothes and a couple executed publicly for adultery. 
  
 A 15-year-old boy from Bama, spared by Boko Haram due to his disability, told Amnesty that he had witnessed 10 stonings. “They stone them to death on Fridays. They will gather all the children and ask them to stone. I participated in the stoning… They will dig a hole, bury all the body and stone the head. When the person dies, they will leave the stones until the body decays.” 
  
 The report also highlights growing tensions between Christians and Muslims. Many Christians interviewed by Amnesty believe that Muslims have informed Boko Haram of their whereabouts or failed to share information about impending attacks and this has left a legacy of distrust between communities that previously lived harmoniously side-by-side. Whilst Boko Haram has destroyed churches and killed Christians who refuse to convert to Islam, they have also targeted moderate Muslims. 
  
 Amnesty is calling on Boko Haram to stop killing civilians and the Nigerian government to take all possible legal steps to ensure their protection and restore security in the north-east. The international community should also continue to assist the new government of Nigeria in addressing the threat posed by Boko Haram. 
  
 Salil Shetty added: 
  
 “The change of government in Nigeria provides an opportunity for a new approach to security in Nigeria after the dismal failure of recent years. “The abducted must be rescued, war crimes and crimes against humanity must be investigated. Bodies must be disinterred from mass graves, further killings must be prevented and those guilty of inflicting this unspeakable suffering must be brought to justice.” 
  
 The information on Boko Haram documented by Amnesty should be considered by the International Criminal Court to as part of its ongoing preliminary examination of the situation in north-east Nigeria. 
  
 Background 
  
 Amnesty has raised concerns on a number of occasions that security forces are not doing enough to protect civilians from the appalling human rights abuses committed by Boko Haram. There have been very few effective investigations and prosecutions of Boko Haram members for crimes under international law. 
  
 The report draws on 377 interviews, including 189 with victims and eye-witnesses to attacks by Boko Haram; 22 with local officials; 22 with military sources; and 102 with local activists. The testimony comes from women, men and children, both Muslims and Christians. Almost all people interviewed asked not to be identified for security reasons; therefore all names used in the report are pseudonyms. 
  
 Amnesty collected this evidence in the course of four research trips in 2014 and 2015 to Maiduguri, camps for internally displaced people in north-east Nigeria and a refugee camp in northern Cameroon. Numerous interviews were also conducted by phone from London. 
  
 Amnesty has documented 38 cases of abduction by Boko Haram. It has gathered 77 testimonies on abductions, including with 31 eyewitnesses and with 28 women and girls who were abducted by Boko Haram and escaped. ||||| Fighting between Boko Haram, military forces and civilian self-defence groups in north-eastern Nigeria has forced around 800,000 children from their homes over the past year, according to the UN children’s agency, Unicef. 
  
 In a report marking the first anniversary of the Islamist group’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls from the Nigerian town of Chibok, Unicef says the number of children running for their lives in the country or crossing into neighbouring Chad, Niger and Cameroon has doubled in just under 12 months. 
  
 Despite steadily escalating its attacks in recent years, Boko Haram – whose name means “western education is forbidden” – achieved worldwide notoriety last April when it abducted the girls from their school in Borno state. 
  
 The girls, aged between 12 and 17, were snatched from their dormitories and loaded on to trucks. Although some managed to escape, others were paraded in a propaganda video, in which it was claimed they would be freed in return for the release of Boko Haram militants held by the Nigerian authorities. 
  
 President Goodluck Jonathan’s delay in reacting to the mass abduction – and his government’s failure to rescue them – is thought to have contributed to his defeat at the hands of Muhammadu Buhari in Nigeria’s recent election. 
  
 In a statement released on Tuesday Buhari said: “When my new administration takes office at the end of May we will do everything we can to defeat Boko Haram. We will act differently from the government we replace: we hear the anguish of our citizens and intend to respond accordingly. 
  
  
  
 “What I can pledge, with absolute certainty, is that starting on the first day of my Administration Boko Haram will know the strength of our collective will and commitment to rid this nation of terror, and bring back peace and normalcy to all the affected areas.” 
  
 Scores of girls and boys have gone missing in Nigeria – abducted, recruited by armed groups, attacked or forced to flee Manuel Fontaine, Unicef 
  
 Manuel Fontaine, Unicef’s regional director for west and central Africa, says the Chibok kidnapping was one of a series of “endless tragedies being replicated on an epic scale” across the region. 
  
 “Scores of girls and boys have gone missing in Nigeria – abducted, recruited by armed groups, attacked, used as weapons or forced to flee violence,” he says. 
  
 The report, Missing Childhoods, says at least 15,000 people have been killed since 2009, when Boko Haram stepped up its violent campaign. Last year, 7,300 were killed, while more than 1,000 civilians have died since the beginning of 2015. 
  
  
  
 Unicef says children have become frequent and deliberate targets for murder, sexual abuse, kidnappings or forced marriage. 
  
 “Countless numbers of children, women and men have been abducted, abused and forcibly recruited, and women and girls have been targeted for particularly horrific abuse, including sexual enslavement,” the report says. 
  
 “Schools have been attacked. The conflict is exacting a heavy toll on children, affecting not just their wellbeing and their safety but also their access to basic health, education and social services.” 
  
 Not only are children as young as four being used by Boko Haram as cooks, porters and lookouts, the report says, but young people are reportedly being recruited by the vigilante groups fighting the Islamist insurgents in north-east Nigeria. Amnesty International estimates that at least 2,000 women and girls have been abducted by Boko Haram since the beginning of last year, many of them forced into sexual slavery and trained to fight. 
  
  
  
 Its secretary general, Salil Shetty, said the “scale and depravity” of the group’s methods had been laid bare in a new Amnesty report based on nearly 200 witness accounts. “Men and women, boys and girls, Christians and Muslims, have been killed, abducted and brutalised by Boko Haram during a reign of terror which has affected millions,” she said. 
  
 “Recent military successes might spell the beginning of the end for Boko Haram, but there is a huge amount to be done to protect civilians, resolve the humanitarian crisis and begin the healing process.” 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Children who fled their homes following an attack by Islamist militants in Bama take a lesson at a camp in Maiduguri. Photograph: Jossy Ola/AP 
  
 Unicef has warned that the hundreds of thousands of displaced people are putting additional strain on already stretched health, education and social services systems in host communities, and has called for international donors to increase their support. 
  
  
  
 It says it has so far received only 15% of the $26.5m needed for its humanitarian operations in Nigeria this year; 17% of its $40.2m appeal for Cameroon; 2% of its $42.5m appeal for Niger and 1% of its $63.1m appeal for Chad. 
  
 “Insecurity and lack of funding are constraining Unicef’s ability to reach affected children,” the report concludes. “Unicef appeals to parties to the conflict to allow humanitarian access. Unicef also urges the international community to increase its support to aid agencies working to alleviate the suffering of civilian populations.” 
  
  ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Young women took part in the Abuja protest, carrying placards with the names of the missing girls 
  
 Protesters around the world have vowed to remember the girls abducted by the Nigerian militant Islamist group Boko Haram one year ago. 
  
 A procession is being held in Nigeria's capital, Abuja, with 219 girls taking part to represent each missing girl. 
  
 UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the world must "never forget the kidnapped Chibok girls". 
  
 The mass abduction sparked global outrage, with nations including the US and China vowing to help find them. 
  
 There have been reported sightings of the girls, but none has been found. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The year since the kidnappings - explained in 90 seconds 
  
 The young women demonstrating in Abuja sang and chanted "solidarity forever" as they marched. They wore red T-shirts with the words "#365DaysOn" and "#NeverToBeForgotten". 
  
 Crowds gathered at a park in central Abuja, demanding the government tell them the truth about the girls, the BBC's Kaura Abubakar reports. 
  
 One woman travelled 750km (460 miles) to show her support, our correspondent adds. 
  
 Ceremonies are also being held in Lagos, and in France, the UK and US. 
  
 Boko Haram say the kidnapped girls have converted to Islam and been married off. One witness told the BBC that she saw more than 50 of them alive three weeks ago in the north-eastern town of Gwoza. 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Activists held a candlelit vigil for the girls as night fell in Abuja 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption A solidarity protest was held in France 
  
 Image copyright PA Image caption Protesters also gathered outside Nigeria House in London 
  
 Ahmed Salkida, a journalist with close links to Boko Haram, told the BBC he believed the girls were "well and healthy". 
  
 "According to [the jihadists] the girls have converted to Islam, so they regard them as very important," he said. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Eyewitness: "We peeked through a window and asked if they were really the Chibok girls" 
  
 Analysis: Will Ross, BBC Nigeria correspondent 
  
 It has been a whole year of agony for the relatives of the missing 219 Chibok girls. There have been a few sightings of some of the abducted students but very little official information from a government that has long promised to rescue them from the clutches of Boko Haram. 
  
 One mother told the BBC she sometimes arranges her 19-year-old daughter's clothes in the hope that she is about to return home. 
  
 The scale of this conflict is so grim that the Chibok girls represent just a fraction of those seized by the jihadists. Many have escaped partly thanks to a recent military offensive - but not the Chibok girls. 
  
 'Life without my daughter' 
  
 Turning the tide against Boko Haram? 
  
 Who are the militants? 
  
 The mass abduction sparked one of the biggest social media campaigns of 2014, with the Twitter hashtag #BringBackOurGirls being used more than five million times. 
  
 Activists have spoken of relatives' anguish at still not knowing what happened to the girls, and criticised the government of outgoing President Goodluck Jonathan for not doing enough to find them. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Outgoing President Goodluck Jonathan says he believe the girls are being held "in a distant forest" 
  
 "Our president has said the girls are alive. Our question is: 'Where are our girls?'" Aisha Yesufu, a spokeswoman for the group, told the BBC. 
  
 Mr Jonathan told the BBC's Newsday that political rivalries had hampered the federal government's ability to respond to the Chibok attack. 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption A video released by Boko Haram last year showed 136 girls, three of whom spoke to the camera 
  
 Incoming president Muhammadu Buhari said his government would "do everything in its power to bring them home" but said he "cannot promise that we can find them". 
  
 The six-year Boko Haram insurgency has left thousands dead. 
  
 Amnesty International say the militants have abducted 2,000 girls and women since the start of last year, using them as cooks, sex slaves and fighters. |||||