The images were posted to social media by the family of the 69-year-old victim, Bilquis Choudry, in a bid to trace those responsible.
Writing on Facebook, Fayyaz Rahman said the men forced their way into his mother-in-law's home in Giffnock, near Glasgow, on Monday.
Police said their inquiries into the robbery were ongoing.
Mrs Choudry was alone in her home in Giffnock, East Renfrewshire, when she heard the sliding doors of her lounge open.
Three men, one of whom was carrying what looked like a screwdriver, then appeared in her lounge and demanded cash and jewellery.
She said: "I was talking on the phone to my friend and suddenly the line went dead. They had cut the phone line. I went to the other room and three men burst in.
"They told me to sit down and were asking, 'Where's your gold? Where's your passwords? Where's your money?"'
The raiders made off with jewellery and cash which had been collected for a charity when they were told Mr Choudry's son was coming home.
In his social media post Mr Rahman, who is Mrs Choudry's son-in-law, urged people to help police identify the men he described as "scumbags" who robbed their victim at knifepoint.
He wrote: "They forced open the patio door when she was on her own, cut the phone line, turned the whole house upside down, took a sizeable amount of cash, house keys, other valuables [and then] ripped off and took away a CCTV DVR (later recovered from a neighbour's garden)."
He went on to describe how a "cousin and a nephew" disturbed the raiders who broke into the Rouken Glen Road home.
Mr Rahman said they confronted and chased the men along the road, where they managed to take the photographs.
They showed two people attempting to get into a dark grey Volvo car. Their faces are covered with only their eyes visible.
One is wearing a blue coat, with the hood pulled over their head and scarf wrapped round their face.
The second is dressed in black, with a baseball cap and a scarf pulled up high on his face.
Mr Rahman's post said: "Anyone with information is requested to call Giffnock police, Glasgow, please share it as well, someone must know these people."
In an earlier statement, Police Scotland said three masked men broken into the woman's home at around 17:30 on Monday.
A fourth man was waiting in the car.
Det Con Craig Faskin described it as an "extremely frightening ordeal" for the woman, who was not injured but left "extremely shaken".