ISLAMABAD (AP) — The Latest on the bombing of a park in the Pakistani city of Lahore (all times local): 
  
 9.00 p.m. 
  
 A health official says that 44 people have been killed and 91 wounded in a blast in a park in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore. 
  
 Salman Rafiq, an adviser to the chief minister of Punjab province, said Sunday that many of the wounded are in a critical condition. 
  
 Senior police officer Haider Ashraf says the explosion took place close to the children's rides in Gulshan-e-Iqbal park. He says the explosion appeared to have been a suicide bombing, but investigations were ongoing. The area was crowded with Christians celebrating the Easter holidays, he said. 
  
 ___ 
  
 8:00 p.m. 
  
 Pakistani police say at least 10 people have been killed and 30 wounded in a blast in a park in the eastern city of Lahore. 
  
 Senior police officer Haider Ashraf says the explosion took place Sunday in the parking area of Gulshan-e-Iqbal park. He says the explosion appeared to have been a suicide bombing, but investigations were ongoing. 
  
 He says the area was crowded because Christians are celebrating the Easter holiday and many families were leaving the park when the blast occurred. He says the death toll could still rise as many of the wounded were in a critical condition. ||||| Image copyright AFP Image caption The blast in Lahore happened in the early evening 
  
 At least 69 people have been killed and scores injured in an explosion at a public park in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore, officials say. 
  
 The park was crowded with families, some celebrating Easter. Many victims are said to be women and children. 
  
 Police told the BBC it appeared to be a suicide bomb. A Pakistan Taliban faction said it carried out the attack. 
  
 Pakistan's president has condemned the blast and the regional government has announced three days of mourning. 
  
 All the major hospitals in the area were put on an emergency footing after the blast early on Sunday evening. 
  
 The explosion appears to have been at the main gate to the Gulshan-e-Iqbal park in an area where cars are usually left - and a short distance from the children's swings. 
  
 One eyewitness said there was chaos, with a stampede starting and children separated from their parents in the rush to escape. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Dozens of ambulances raced to Gulshan-e-Iqbal park but for many it was too late 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Large numbers of people have been injured, and many are said to be in a serious condition 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Many families had gone to the park 
  
 Another man told Pakistan's Geo TV station he was heading towards a fairground ride with his wife and two children when he heard a huge bang and all four of them were thrown to the floor. 
  
 Hasan Imran, 30, a local resident who had gone to the park for a walk told Reuters: "When the blast occurred, the flames were so high they reached above the trees and I saw bodies flying in the air." 
  
 The agency also reported that the army was called in to control crowds outside the park. 
  
 According to Lahore's deputy commissioner, Mohammad Usman, the number of injured was 193. 
  
 Facebook has activated its feature for people in Lahore to mark themselves as safe, as news of the blast spread. 
  
 Lahore is the capital of Punjab, Pakistan's largest and wealthiest province and the political powerbase of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. 
  
 Pakistan Taliban splinter group Jamaat-ul-Ahrar told local and Western media it was behind the attack. 
  
 "We claim responsibility for the attack on Christians as they were celebrating Easter," spokesperson Ehansullah Ehsan told Pakistan's Express Tribune. 
  
 Pakistan has suffered regular incidents of Taliban-related violence, sectarian strife and criminal gang activity. 
  
 Meanwhile in the capital, Islamabad, police fired tear gas at thousands of protesters who marched in support of Islamist gunman Mumtaz Qadri, whom they see as a religious hero. 
  
 Qadri was hanged last month for the murder of Punjab governor Salman Taseer five years ago. 
  
 Mr Taseer had defended a Christian woman jailed on blasphemy charges. |||||