The visitors struggled to find a cutting edge without top goalscorer Derek Lyle, who picked up a thigh injury in the warm up.
Dumbarton's Robert Thomson's clipped the post with a header and Darren Barr missed a close-range chance.
The hosts threaten again after the interval when Sam Stanton drove a shot into the side-netting.
The Doonhamers will lose top spot if nearest challengers Hibernian beat Dundee United at Easter Road on Sunday.
The Dumfries side had been averaging two goals a game in the league but found openings hard to come by.
Josh Todd had the first sight of goal for Dumbarton in the eighth minute when he won the ball in midfield and drove forward but dragged his effort wide.
Stephen Dobbie teed up Kyle Jacobs but his shot was narrowly wide before the former saw his shot blocked and Steven Rigg pulled the rebound wide.
After Thomson grazed the woodwork Barr should have put the hosts ahead but put the ball over the crossbar after a long throw from Daniel Harvie caused havoc in the Queens box.
Dobbie curled an early shot wide in the second half before Alan Martin had to be sharp to stop Rigg's header.
Lyndon Dykes then sent another header wide for Queens as both sides had to settle for a point.
Match ends, Dumbarton 0, Queen of the South 0.
Second Half ends, Dumbarton 0, Queen of the South 0.
Hand ball by Josh Todd (Dumbarton).
Substitution, Dumbarton. Garry Fleming replaces Joseph Thomson.
Attempt missed. Lyndon Dykes (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
Substitution, Queen of the South. Jake Pickard replaces Steven Rigg.
Lyndon Dykes (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andy Stirling (Dumbarton).
Attempt missed. Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right.
Foul by Robert Thomson (Dumbarton).
Darren Brownlie (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Steven Rigg (Queen of the South) header from very close range is close, but misses to the right.
Substitution, Dumbarton. Andy Stirling replaces Samuel Stanton.
Attempt missed. Robert Thomson (Dumbarton) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Substitution, Queen of the South. Dean Brotherston replaces Grant Anderson.
Attempt missed. Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right.
Mark Docherty (Dumbarton) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Mark Docherty (Dumbarton).
Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Joseph Thomson (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Craig Pettigrew (Dumbarton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Steven Rigg (Queen of the South).
Attempt blocked. Grant Anderson (Queen of the South) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.
Corner,  Queen of the South. Conceded by Daniel Harvie.
Corner,  Queen of the South. Conceded by Samuel Stanton.
Attempt missed. Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt missed. Steven Rigg (Queen of the South) header from very close range is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt missed. Andy Dowie (Queen of the South) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Attempt saved. Kyle Jacobs (Queen of the South) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Foul by David Smith (Dumbarton).
Steven Rigg (Queen of the South) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Steven Rigg (Queen of the South) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Corner,  Dumbarton. Conceded by Andy Dowie.
David Smith (Dumbarton) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South).
Attempt missed. Stephen Dobbie (Queen of the South) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Attempt missed. Ryan Stevenson (Dumbarton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Second Half begins Dumbarton 0, Queen of the South 0.
First Half ends, Dumbarton 0, Queen of the South 0.
Attempt blocked. Mark Millar (Queen of the South) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.