Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is open to the idea of building a wall along America’s northern border with Canada, he said on Sunday. 
  
 Given that the northern border poses a potential risk for terrorists to bleed into the U.S., the Republican presidential candidate said he would not rule out a wall to increase security there. 
  
 “That is a legitimate issue for us to look at,” Walker said on NBC’s “Meet the Press." 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 “Some people have asked us about that in New Hampshire. They raised some very legitimate concerns, including some law enforcement folks that brought that up to me at one of our town hall meetings about a week and a half ago,” he added. 
  
 “I think we need to secure borders in general.” 
  
 Like many of his competitors in the GOP presidential primary, Walker has consistently called for stronger defenses along the southern border with Mexico, including the creation of a wall to keep out people crossing into the U.S. illegally — including potential terrorists. 
  
 “It only makes sense to me that, if part of what we're trying do is protect ourselves — and set aside immigration for a minute — but protect ourselves from risk out there, I think we should make sure we have a secure border,” he added. 
  
 Potential walls on both borders would be just one element of stronger national defenses, he maintained. 
  
 “It wasn't just about building a wall and securing our borders,” Walker said. “It was also about making sure our intelligence community has the ability for counterterrorism and the ability to go after the infrastructure they need to protect us.” ||||| WASHINGTON (AP) — Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is putting a new twist on the topic of securing the border, a staple among the GOP candidates running for president, by pointing north. 
  
 Republican presidential candidate Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker speaks during a meet and greet with local residents, Wednesday, Aug. 26, 2015, in Harlan, Iowa. Walker wowed Republicans at the Iowa Freedom... (Associated Press) 
  
 Walker said in an interview that aired Sunday that building a wall along the country's northern border with Canada is a legitimate issue that merits further review. 
  
 Republican candidates for president have often taken a get-tough approach on deterring illegal immigration, but they usually focus on the border with Mexico. Walker was asked Sunday morning on NBC's "Meet the Press" whether he wanted to build a wall on the northern border, too. Walker said some people in New Hampshire have asked the campaign about the topic. 
  
 "They raised some very legitimate concerns, including some law enforcement folks that brought that up to me at one of our town hall meetings about a week and a half ago. So that is a legitimate issue for us to look at," Walker said. 
  
 The U.S.-Canada boundary is the longest international border in the world at 5,525 miles long. 
  
 Billionaire Donald Trump is riding the issue of illegal immigration to the top of the Republican presidential primary polls. He has said he would make Mexico pay for completing a permanent wall along the border. He also says he would also end automatic citizenship for those born in the United States, a right guaranteed by the 14th Amendment to the Constitution that was originally added to grant citizenship to freed slaves and their descendants after the Civil War. His positions appear to have pushed rivals to also take strong stands on immigration. 
  
 Walker, at one point, echoed Trump's call for ending birthright citizenship, but later said he's against any such repeal. ||||| New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie said today that if he is elected president he will track immigrants and foreign visitors the way FedEx tracks packages. 
  
 "At any moment, FedEx can tell you where that package is. It's on the truck. It’s at the station. It's on the airplane," Christie said, speaking at a VFW hall in New Hampshire Saturday morning. "Yet we let people come to this country with visas, and the minute they come in, we lose track of them." 
  
 As president, Christie said, he would enlist the help of Fred Smith, founder of Federal Express, to show Immigration and Custom Enforcement how to track immigrants who might otherwise overstay their welcome. 
  
 "We need to have a system that tracks you from the moment you come in, and then when your time is up, we go get you and tap you on the shoulder and say, 'Excuse me, thanks for coming, time to go,'" Christie said. 
  
 Campaign spokeswoman Samantha Smith, daughter of Fred Smith, clarified the governors comment this morning saying, "What he is talking about is better leveraging technology not only in this regard issuing visas to track, but also using drones on the border." 
  
 Today’s FedEx comment is the second time this week Christie mentioned the shipping company in response to a question on immigration. 
  
 In an appearance Thursday on Fox News' "Fox & Friends," Christie advocated the use of drones and other technology to better police our borders. 
  
 "How is it that Federal Express can track a package and tell you anywhere it's going to be," Christie said. "And yet when someone comes in with a visa, we lose 40 percent of the immigration in this country comes with not being able to track people. They come in on a visa and they overstay." 
  
 Fox’s Steve Doocy added, "Let's have Amazon.com keep track of people," to which Christie responded, "I think Federal Express is better." 
  
 So far in his campaign, Christie has taken a moderate stance on immigration. He does not endorse building a fence along the U.S. border with Mexico and has advocated for a stronger E-Verify system to hold employers who hire illegal workers accountable for their actions. 
  
 This morning’s town hall was Christie's 19th such event in New Hampshire since launching his campaign in June. |||||