The seed for Wide00014 was: 
  
 - Slash pages from every domain on the web: 
  
  
  
  
  
 -- a ranking of all URLs that have more than one incoming inter-domain link (rank was determined by number of incoming links using Wide00012 inter domain links) 
  
  
  
 -- up to a maximum of 100 most highly ranked URLs per domain 
  
 - Top ranked pages (up to a max of 100) from every linked-to domain using the Wide00012 inter-domain navigational link graph ||||| CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) — A television news anchorman fighting brain cancer in Illinois has told viewers he has only four to six months to live, but he hopes to work as long as he can. 
  
 During a newscast Thursday, Dave Benton told viewers of WCIA-TV in Champaign that doctors recently told him that his brain tumor is too large for surgery or radiation. 
  
 He says he'll try a new treatment to slow the tumor's growth, but that his goal is to add "a few more days and make them the best they can be." 
  
 Benton has a wife and two adult children. He grew up in Addison, a Chicago suburb, and graduated from Northern Illinois University. 
  
 Benton's online biography says he has worked at the station for nine years. ||||| WCIA-3 NEWS -- We have some family business to discuss. That's why we're sitting here. Because all of you are part of our family, we wanted to let you know what's been going on behind the scenes. 
  
  
  
  
  
 "I've found out a few weeks ago, my brain cancer is back. But, I've learned more about what the future holds. This new tumor is too big for surgery or radiation. I've decided to do an antibody treatment and some chemo to try to slow its growth. That's my best option. That being said, doctors say I have anywhere from four-to-six months before things turn bad. I'm dedicated to keep working. I'll be here bringing you the news as long as I am able. I'm grateful for the outpouring of support, prayers and cards. It's meant the world to me. It's changed my life." 
  
 WCIA-3 NEWS -- We have some family business to discuss. That's why we're sitting here. Because all of you are part of our family, we wanted to let you know what's been going on behind the scenes."I've found out a few weeks ago, my brain cancer is back. But, I've learned more about what the future holds. This new tumor is too big for surgery or radiation. I've decided to do an antibody treatment and some chemo to try to slow its growth. That's my best option. That being said, doctors say I have anywhere from four-to-six months before things turn bad. I'm dedicated to keep working. I'll be here bringing you the news as long as I am able. I'm grateful for the outpouring of support, prayers and cards. It's meant the world to me. It's changed my life." 
  
 Copyright 2014 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ||||| A local news anchor shared some emotionally heavy news on the air this week about his cancer diagnosis. WCIA anchor Dave Benton said on Thursday he’s been told by doctors that his cancer is back and he has only months to love. 
  
 But what was most stunning about Benton’s announcement was his resolve as he told it. He sounded rather upbeat and spoke of living the rest of his life to the fullest. 
  
 Benton said, “I believe that I’m in God’s hands. I am at peace and I know he’s going to take care of the days ahead and that the goal here is to have the best ones possible.” 
  
 He also used the opportunity to highlight that there are plenty of other people out there suffering from cancer who need emotional support as well. 
  
 Watch the video below, via WCIA: 
  
 [h/t The Blaze] 
  
 [image via screengrab] 
  
 — — 
  
 Follow Josh Feldman on Twitter: @feldmaniac 
  
 Have a tip we should know? tips@mediaite.com |||||