Washington (CNN) Sen. Marco Rubio has fired his chief of staff over "allegations of improper conduct" with a subordinate, his office announced late Saturday night. 
  
 "Yesterday afternoon, I was made aware, for the first time, of allegations of improper conduct by my chief of staff while under the employment of my office," Rubio said in a statement. 
  
 The statement did not mention Rubio's chief of staff by name, but he has been identified as Clint Reed on his social media accounts, and a former aide confirmed he was the chief of staff. CNN has attempted to contact Reed for comment. 
  
 Clint Reed, former chief of staff to Sen. Marco Rubio. 
  
 "By early this afternoon, I had sufficient evidence to conclude that while employed by this office, my chief of staff had violated office policies regarding proper relations between a supervisor and their subordinates. I further concluded that this led to actions which in my judgement amounted to threats to withhold employment benefits." 
  
 The Republican lawmaker said he flew from Florida to Washington D.C. on Saturday and "terminated his employment effective immediately." 
  
 Read More ||||| Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Florida) said he traveled from Florida to Washington on Saturday night to terminate Reed’s employment effective immediately | Getty Rubio fires chief of staff for improper relations with subordinates 
  
 Sen. Marco Rubio has fired his chief of staff after determining he violated office policies regarding proper relations between a supervisor and subordinates. 
  
 Rubio said in a statement that an investigation concluded his chief of staff Clint Reed engaged in behavior that "in my judgement amounted to threats to withhold employment benefits." 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 Rubio announced the decision to fire Reed just before midnight on Saturday. The Florida Republican said he became aware “for the first time” on Friday “of allegations of improper conduct by my Chief of Staff while under the employment of my office.” 
  
 Rubio said the allegations were reported directly to him and that he then immediately began an investigation with his general counsel. 
  
 “By early this afternoon, I had sufficient evidence to conclude that while employed by this office, my Chief of Staff had violated office policies regarding proper relations between a supervisor and their subordinates,” Rubio said. 
  
 The most reliable politics newsletter. Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
  
 Rubio said he traveled from Florida to Washington on Saturday night to terminate Reed’s employment effective immediately. His office has also “taken steps to ensure that those impacted by this conduct have access to any services they may require now or in the future,” he said. 
  
 He said that his office was not disclosing any more details “pursuant to the wishes of those victimized by this conduct” and that his office will formally notify Congressional and Senate administrative offices on Monday. 
  
 Reed began working for Rubio on his presidential campaign, including his efforts ahead of the Iowa caucuses. Reed then ran Rubio’s 2016 Senate campaign when he left the presidential race and reversed a decision to run for re-election in 2016. He replaced Albert Martinez, a longtime Rubio adviser. 
  
 Jessica Fernandez, his longtime scheduler and current deputy chief of staff, will act as Rubio’s interim chief of staff. 
  
 Reed could not be reached and Rubio’s office, noting the need for confidentiality, said it would provide no further information about the case. 
  
 Seung Min Kim contributed to this report. |||||