Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Dowager Duchess of Devonshire spoke of their uncertainty when her family first inherited the Chatsworth estate 
  
 Deborah, the Dowager Duchess of Devonshire, and the last surviving Mitford sister, has died aged 94. 
  
 Her son, the Duke of Devonshire, announced the death in a statement from Chatsworth House, her stately home. 
  
 Prince Charles said he was "saddened" by the news, saying he "adored and admired" Deborah and would "miss her so very much". 
  
 The Mitford sisters fascinated - and sometimes scandalised - British society in the 1940s. 
  
 Unity was a friend of Hitler; Diana, the second wife of British fascist leader Sir Oswald Mosley; Jessica, a left-wing activist, and Nancy, a novelist and historian. 
  
 Deborah, like her elder sister Pamela, was more focused on home life. 
  
 Image copyright J. A. Hampton Image caption Left to right: Pamela Herman Hodge, the Dowager Duchess of Devonshire and Lady Margaret Ogilvy at a point-to-point steeplechase in Oxfordshire, in February 1938 
  
 Nonetheless, along with her siblings, during her lifetime she moved in the same circles as Sir Winston Churchill, John F Kennedy and Evelyn Waugh. 
  
 She also accompanied her sister Unity to tea with Hitler in 1937, was painted by Lucian Freud, and amassed a collection of Elvis Presley memorabilia. 
  
 Nicknamed the "housewife duchess", she made Chatsworth in Derbyshire one of the most successful and profitable stately homes in England after marrying Andrew Cavendish - who later became the 11th Duke of Devonshire - in 1941. 
  
 The statement from her son said: "It is with great sadness that I have to inform you that Deborah, Dowager Duchess of Devonshire, has passed away peacefully this morning." 
  
 It added that an announcement about funeral arrangements would be made shortly. 
  
 Prince Charles said: "My wife and I were deeply saddened to learn of the death of the Dowager Duchess of Devonshire, whom both of us adored and admired greatly. 
  
 "She was a unique personality with a wonderfully original approach to life, and a memorable turn of phrase to match that originality. 
  
 "The joy, pleasure and amusement she gave to so many, particularly through her books, as well as the contribution she made to Derbyshire throughout her time at Chatsworth, will not easily be forgotten and we shall miss her so very much." 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Deborah spoke with the same distinctive Mitford voice as her sisters, reports the BBC's Nick Higham 
  
 Born Deborah Vivien Freeman-Mitford on 31 March 1920, the duchess was the sixth daughter of the 2nd Baron Redesdale. 
  
 The Mitfords' childhood at their family home in the Oxfordshire village of Swinbrook was immortalised in Nancy's novels, The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate. 
  
 Her parents made a poor job of hiding their disappointment that Deborah had not been born a boy, leaving Thomas their only son. 
  
 Image copyright PA Image caption Deborah was the youngest Mitford sister 
  
 The Mitfords' father disapproved of educating girls, famously insisting that hockey would make their ankles fat, and Deborah spent her formative years skating and hunting. 
  
 Her sister Unity's infatuation with Hitler saw the young Deborah invited to tea with the German dictator, although the visit made little impression on her. 
  
 "If you sat in a room with Churchill," she later recalled, "you were aware of this tremendous charisma. Kennedy had it too. But Hitler didn't - not to me anyway." 
  
 At Chatsworth, the Duchess took on a major role in running the house and its garden, which have been used in a number of film and TV productions, and she ran the estate's farm shop. 
  
 In July 2002, the duchess and her husband spoke out against the government's proposed ban on fox hunting. 
  
 Made a dame in 1999, she became the Dowager Duchess of Devonshire in 2004 after her husband died and their son inherited his title. 
  
 She penned a number of books including the autobiographical Wait for Me: Memoirs of the Youngest Mitford Sister, which was published in 2010. ||||| From age 6, Deborah had a passion for chickens. In their drafty old Oxfordshire manse, she and her sisters hid in a linen cupboard heated by water pipes and made up secret languages. Her father, an irascible baron, hunted his children on horseback, with hounds. Visiting Munich with Unity in 1937, Deborah, 17, wrote home: “We have had quite a nice time here & we’ve had tea with Hitler & seen all the other sights.” 
  
 At 21, she married Andrew Cavendish, second son of the 10th Duke of Devonshire. His older brother was killed in World War II, and when his father died in 1950, he became the 11th Duke, inheriting vast wealth, including a castle in Ireland and Chatsworth, a 35,000-acre Derbyshire estate that had been in his family for generations. 
  
 Surrounded by 105 acres of gardens designed by Capability Brown and miles of meadows and wooded hills, Chatsworth’s magnificent 16th-century mansion, with ceilings painted by Antonio Verrio, had 297 rooms, 112 fireplaces, 68 lavatories, 26 baths, 32 kitchens and workshops, 17 staircases, and 1.3 acres of roof. 
  
 But it came with a catch: inheritance taxes of nearly $20 million, not to mention huge maintenance costs. Like many of Britain’s great country houses fallen on hard times, Chatsworth, outmoded and rundown, had long been open to the public, but its trickle of visitors and income left the duke and duchess in the red. They sold artworks and acreage to pay taxes totaling 80 percent of the estate’s value: $285 million in today’s money. 
  
 Transforming Chatsworth from a museumlike relic into a self-sustaining family business, however, was a more ambitious long-term project that, because of the duke’s alcoholism and other problems, fell largely to the duchess. She made it the core of her life’s work. 
  
 She put in central heating, phones, new wiring and plumbing for 17 new bathrooms; opened gift shops and a market that employed 100 people and sold meat and produce, including the Duchess’s Marmalade and the Duke’s Favorite Sausages. She began lecturing on farming, drawing 200,000 people a year. Later came restaurants, catering services, boutiques and other moneymakers, including two hotels near Chatsworth. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Recognizing the commercial value of her involvement, she took a hands-on approach to running the house, greeting and leading tourists through the public rooms, teaching classes and feeding her chickens: Leghorns, Rhode Island Reds, Buff Cochins, Welsummers and less notable types that ran loose on the grounds like marauding gangs. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 In 2002, Chatsworth became self-sufficient for the first time, covering its $6.5 million annual costs with income from the Chatsworth House Trust and proceeds from visitors, country fairs and the restaurants and shops she had started. Some 600,000 people a year visit Chatsworth, making it one of Britain’s most popular rural tourist sites. 
  
 Visitors found the duchess gracious and down to earth, a straight-backed, silver-haired aristocrat who spoke animatedly with anyone about interior design, livestock, gardening, fine arts and Elvis Presley, whom she adored and whose memorabilia she kept. She was properly “your grace,” but regarded herself as less exalted. “I’m a housewife,” she told a reporter for The New York Times in 2003. 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 For many years, she and the duke, who was knighted in 1996, occupied 24 rooms that were off-limits to visitors. With the death of her husband in 2004, she became the dowager duchess, and her son, Peregrine, became the 12th Duke of Devonshire. Later, she moved to a nearby village, Edensor, and continued writing. 
  
 Since the early 1980s she had written a dozen books, many on Chatsworth, along with volumes of essays, reminiscences, cookbooks and letters exchanged with the travel writer Patrick Leigh Fermor. All were touched with autobiographical details. Her memoir’s title, “Wait for Me!,” referred to a lifetime of playing catch-up to her sisters. 
  
 She was born Deborah Vivien Freeman-Mitford on March 31, 1920, at Asthall Manor, the Oxfordshire estate of her parents, David Freeman-Mitford, the 2nd Baron Redesdale, and the former Sydney Bowles. 
  
 Denied formal educations, she and her sisters developed a rich fantasy life, creating a secret “Society of Hons,” which met in the warm linen cupboard at Swinbrook, another stone-cold family mansion. 
  
 There, they divided the world into “Hons” — or honorables, as barons’ daughters are known, and others they liked — and “Counter-Hons,” everybody else. They invented secret languages, Honnish and Boudledidge, which mimicked rural Oxfordshire accents, with distorted vowels and softened consonants, all pronounced in tones of hopeless yearning. A governess taught them the joys of village shoplifting. 
  
 They went their ways: Nancy (1904-73) wrote “The Pursuit of Love” and “Love in a Cold Climate.” Pamela (1907-94), married a horseman who became a physicist. Thomas (1909-45) was killed in the war. Diana (1910-2003) married Britain’s fascist leader, Oswald Mosley, and was imprisoned with him for most of the war. Unity (1914-48), who was Eva Braun’s rival for Hitler’s affections, died a decade after her attempted suicide with the bullet still in her head. Jessica (1917-96) eloped with Churchill’s nephew, and they moved to the United States. He was killed in the war, and she remained in America, writing “The American Way of Death” and other books. 
  
 Unlike her siblings, Deborah knew little of politics growing up. But her marriage to Lord Cavendish brought her into political circles. His uncle by marriage was the future prime minister Harold Macmillan, who found government jobs for him, and they had long been friends of the Kennedy clan (the families were related by marriage) and attended the inauguration and funeral of President John F. Kennedy. 
  
 Three of the couple’s six children died shortly after birth. 
  
 Besides her son, who holds the title Duke of Devonshire, her survivors include two daughters, Lady Emma Tennant and Lady Sophia Topley; eight grandchildren; and 18 great-grandchildren. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 In 1999, Queen Elizabeth II named the duchess a Dame Commander of the Royal Victorian Order for her services to preserving Britain’s residential heritage. |||||