Sinai Miller, 9, was shot in the leg while selling Girl Scout cookies. Help her out and buy a box. (Photo: Fox59 screen grab) 
  
 A 9-year-old girl was shot Tuesday evening on the city's Northwestside, police said. 
  
 Sinai Miller and her two younger sisters were preparing to sell Girl Scout cookies in their neighborhood when shots were fired from a passing car. 
  
 "They walked outside the door, and they didn't even get to make it across the lot and then the shots start ringing out," Mark Chandler, boyfriend of the girl's mother, told Fox59. 
  
 Indianapolis police officers were dispatched to the 7200 block of Rue De Margot Drive just after 4:30 p.m. Tuesday on a report of a person shot, police said. When police arrived at the Retreat Cooperative apartments near Westlane and Michigan Road, they found Sinai with a gunshot wound to the leg. 
  
 Emergency medical crews said the girl was stable when they transported her to Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health. She later returned home. 
  
 Investigators on the scene said witnesses reported seeing a person's arm sticking out the window of an SUV and firing a gun indiscriminately. There were children playing outside near where witnesses said the gun was fired, and police believe that is when the girl was struck by a stray bullet. 
  
 After the shots were fired, the SUV took off, police said. 
  
 Officer Christopher Wilburn, a spokesman for the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department, told The Star detectives do not think the shot was meant for the child, but that witnesses did not see anyone else around the children when the gunfire rang out. 
  
 Police were looking for a blue Ford Expedition, Fox59 said. Witnesses told police that they were not sure how many people were inside the SUV, and whether it was a driver or passenger that fired the weapon. 
  
 Call Star reporter Michael Anthony Adams at (317) 444-6123. Follow him on Twitter: @MichaelAdams317. 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1CXe40Q ||||| Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (Feb. 4, 2015) - A 9-year-old girl is recovering after being shot by a stray bullet Tuesday in front of her home on the north side. 
  
 Sinai Miller, 9, was walking outside with her sisters to sell Girl Scout cookies on Tuesday evening when she was shot in the leg. She was taken to the hospital and released Tuesday night. 
  
 “I heard three gunshots and then one of them hit me in the leg," Sinai says. 
  
 She's back at home and resting with her family. She has a dressing on her left leg to cover the bullet wound. She says it doesn't hurt much now, but it did when she was shot. 
  
 "She came in screaming, ‘Mommy, mommy. It hurt. It hurt.’ And I’m like what hurt? What’s wrong. So when I pulled her pant leg up, that’s when I discovered she was shot," says Sinai's mother, Shanita Miller. 
  
 “She’s brave. She’s very brave," Shanita says of her daughter. Sinai can't walk on her own yet, but is excited to get back out and sell Girl Scout cookies. 
  
 The family is hoping for justice. 
  
 "So that won’t happen to someone else’s child so they won’t experience the hurt and pain that not only me but my child, experienced," says Shanita. 
  
 Police are still looking for the person who pulled the trigger. Witnesses told them someone driving a blue Ford Expedition fired shots in the direction of men standing outside the Retreat Cooperative apartments near Westlane and Michigan roads. One bullet hit Sinai in the leg and another hit an apartment building door. 
  
 A spokesperson for Girl Scouts of Central Indiana released the following statement: 
  
 I am so sad that one of our Girl Scouts was shot in the leg last night during a random act of violence in her neighborhood. Our thoughts and prayers are with her and her family. Unfortunately, one in seven school-aged girls has experienced violence in their own neighborhood. Nothing is more important to our organization than ensuring the health and safety of girls. We cannot complete our mission to build girls of courage, confidence, and character, who make the world a better place when they are afraid to play in their own neighborhoods. As a society, we need to do better to ensure the safety of all children in all communities. I am steadfast in my commitment to working with other organizations to improve the safety of our children, and ask that you stand with me in this effort. 
  
 Sinai's Girl Scout Troop leader brought her get well presents from her troop. You can help Sinai sell Girl Scout Cookies or send her a letter by clicking here. ||||| × 9-year-old girl shot while selling Girl Scout cookies 
  
 INDIANAPOLIS — Police say a 9-year-old girl was shot Tuesday while selling Girl Scout cookies on the north side of Indianapolis, FOX 59 reported. 
  
 Sinai Miller was shot in the lower left calf around 4:30 p.m. just after leaving her apartment with her sisters. 
  
 The girl was taken to Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health. Mark Chandler, the boyfriend of the girl’s mother, says she’s recovering and in good spirits. 
  
 Sinai was released from the hospital Tuesday night and is now at home. 
  
 Chandler says the girl and her two young sisters were selling Girl Scout cookies in their neighborhood. 
  
 “They walked outside the door and they didn’t even get to make it across the lot and then the shots start ringing out,” said Chandler. 
  
 Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 He says it's a terrifying image for the girl and her sisters to experience. 
  
 "I came downstairs and she was sitting over there and that's her little boot and the blood." Chandler adds, "it's just ridiculous. She's 9-years-old, man. She's very smart. She don't know nothing about no gun or no shots or whatever." 
  
 Police are searching for suspects in a blue Ford Expedition in relation to the shooting. Witnesses say they were standing outside their town homes when they saw a hand reach out from the SUV window and fire two to three shots in their direction. One shot struck the young girl, and another hit an apartment door. 
  
 Neighbors say it's not something they see in their family-friendly community. 
  
 "The type of community this is, it's kid friendly and for this to happen sparingly with no direction, they was just shooting," Tamera Williams says. 
  
 There's no further description of the suspects or a possible motive released for the shooting. 
  
 If you'd like to buy some Girl Scout cookies from Sinai, click here. ||||| CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Sinai Miller, 9, just wanted to sell Girl Scout cookies. But on the afternoon she was supposed to sell them in her neighborhood, she was hit by a stray bullet before getting more than a few steps out her front door. Robert King / The Star 
  
 Buy Photo Shanita Miller sits with her daughter Sinai Miller, 9, as she heals from being shot in the leg while she and her two young sisters were preparing to sell Girl Scout cookies in their neighborhood. (Photo: Matt Detrich/The Star)Buy Photo 
  
 Nine-year-old Sinai Miller had been waiting all day for this — waiting to get her hands on her Girl Scout Cookies so she could start selling them door-to-door around her apartment complex. 
  
 Sinai (pronounced sih-NYE) had talked about the cookies when she woke up Tuesday. She had talked about the cookies when she got home from school. After finishing her homework, she pointed out to her mother that it was almost 4:30 — the time she was supposed to meet in the complex's clubhouse with the other girls to pick up the cookies and start knocking on doors. 
  
 She never made it to the pick up. 
  
 Just as Sinai took a few steps outside her apartment, with one of her sisters next to her, the gunfire started. 
  
 Her mother, Shanita Miller, was just inside the door, zipping up the coat of another daughter. When she heard the shots, she pushed two of her daughters back into the apartment. But Sinai darted past all of them. In silence. She went further inside the apartment and then started hollering. 
  
 "Mama, mama, mama. It hurt. It hurt. It hurt." 
  
 Shanita Miller asked her what hurt. And then she pulled up the girl's pant leg. Sinai was covered in blood. 
  
 The wound from a stray bullet — its source still unknown to police — missed bone and artery, entering and exiting the girl's calf without doing major physical damage. After a trip to the hospital, Sinai was back home in her own bed, her calf wrapped with thick gauze. 
  
 It is believed to be the first time in the United States — and certainly in Indiana — that a Girl Scout has been shot while involved in a cookie sales project, according to the Girls Scouts of Central Indiana. 
  
 Much less rare is the frequency of a child being hit by a bullet in Indianapolis. Yet it left Sinai asking questions many other children affected by violence might just as well have asked. 
  
 "What did I do wrong?" Sinai asked her family. "Why did this happen?" 
  
 The answer to the first question — nothing — is obvious. 
  
 Sinai is a kid who just stepped outside her door. Beyond that, Sinai is an A-and-B-student as a third-grader at Fox Hill Elementary, her mother said. She likes to help her younger sisters with their schoolwork. She's gregarious and kind. 
  
 After the shooting Sinai's biggest concern — aside from the pain — was about the field trip she'd be missing on Friday, her mother said. A trip to a roller rink. Sinai asked if she might go another time. 
  
 The why question is more difficult. 
  
 Shanita Miller and her boyfriend, Mark Chandler, don't have an answer. Two days ago they thought their Northwestside apartment complex was safe. Now, they're looking to move. They're also wondering what kind of city Indianapolis is when a 9-year-old girl gets shot on her way to a Girl Scout meeting. 
  
 Investigators said witnesses reported seeing a person's arm sticking out the window of an SUV and firing indiscriminately. After the shots were fired, the SUV took off. Sinai's apartment is in the 7200 block of Rue De Margot Drive, just off Michigan Road. 
  
 "It hurts our heart that we have to sit up here and cry about this, but what steps are we supposed to take with this," Chandler said. "This just don't happen. It isn't supposed to happen." 
  
 Clearly, though, it happens in Indianapolis. 
  
 In the past year, a 16-year-old boy died after being shot in the belly while riding his bike on a summer night. A 14-year-old girl survived a gunshot wound to the back suffered while sitting in a car. A 13-year-old honor roll student was critically wounded at a birthday party. 
  
 (Photo: Fox59 screen grab) 
  
 Statewide, 82 children died from firearm injuries from 2011 to 2013, according to the Indiana State Department of Health. Over that same period, 190 children were treated for firearm injuries. 
  
 The Girl Scouts have guidelines for cookie sales — starting with an assessment of a neighborhood's safety, said Deborah Hearn Smith, CEO of Girl Scouts of Central Indiana. Girls are never to go out alone — at least two girls and one adult being preferred. Never are they to go into a house. None of those rules was broken here. 
  
 Six months ago, the Girl Scouts released a study that said one of seven girls in Indiana experienced violence in their neighborhoods. "This," Smith said, "just drives that home." 
  
 It was driven home to Sinai Miller on her doorstep. On her first night after the wound, the girl jumped out of her sleep at noises as common as the sound of her sister getting up to go to the bathroom. Proof that some wounds aren't fixed with a bandage. 
  
 "I feel like the situation is," her mother said, "that my baby is going to be scarred." 
  
 Children getting shot 
  
 Fifty-two children ages 0 to 17 were treated for firearm injuries at emergency departments, hospitals and trauma centers in Indiana in the first nine months of 2014, according to the most recent data available from the Indiana State Department of Health. 2013 saw 65 reported incidents. 
  
 Here are some snapshots of Marion County incidents: 
  
 September 2014: Kayalleiujah Gibson, 16, is found in the 4300 block of East 34th Street. He was riding his bike when he was fatally shot in the lower abdomen. 
  
 July 2014: Ja'Vonne Ellis, 15, is found dead with a gunshot wound a few blocks away from the Eastside home where he grew up. His body was found lying in an alley near a Family Dollar store at 38th & Station streets. 
  
 May 2014: A 14-year-old girl is wounded while sitting in a car near Fountain Square. The bullet goes through the trunk of a car before striking her in the lower back. 
  
 >A 10-year-old girl is shot in the leg and buttocks from bullets that rip through her family's home in the 6000 block of Lakeside Manor Avenue a little before 10 p.m. One bullet flies through the pillow of her 8-year-old sister — just under her head. 
  
 April 2014: A stray bullet hits an 11-year-old girl in her arm as she sleeps in an apartment in the 3300 block of Ashley Lane, near West 34th Street and Moller Road. She recovered. 
  
 February 2014: A 15-year-old male is shot in the abdomen by three men who stole his cellphone, jeans and a pair of Nike Air Jordan basketball shoes. 
  
 > Quinton Nance, 16, is shot dead in the 600 block of East 23rd Street. Police say Nance and his brother had been in a fight with a group of boys beforehand. Members of that group followed Nance and shot him. 
  
 > A 13-year-old honor student is critically wounded in a shooting while attending a birthday celebration in the 3400 block of Aylesford Lane when an unspecified disturbance breaks out. 
  
 December 2013: A 3-year-old boy is shot in his home in the 1100 block of West 27th St. Adults tell police the boy was shot by someone outside the front door when he answered it. A bullet is found lodged in the refrigerator. 
  
 > Anthony Warren, 15, is found unresponsive and bleeding in the snow near an apartment complex near 56th Street and Georgetown Road. Warren suffered two gunshot wounds, one to his chest and another in is lower torso. 
  
 September 2013: A stray bullet hits a 5-year-old child in the shoulder while the child was getting ready for bed at an apartment in the 9100 block of East 42nd Street. The child survived. 
  
 July 2013: Monquize Edwards, 16, is fatally shot during a skirmish involving 40 to 50 youths at Meridian and Maryland streets following a Fourth of July celebration. 
  
 > A stray bullet strikes a 4-year-old girl in the thigh as she plays in her yard near 42nd Street and Sherman Drive. 
  
 > James Johnson, 16, is gunned down in midafternoon next to a swingset at the Hawthorne Place Apartments playground, near East 32nd Street and North Emerson Avenue. 
  
 Source: Star archives 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1D06XF0 |||||