Media playback is not supported on this device
Story of the match:
Iran spent much of the first half under pressure but more than once threatened to inflict what would have been a huge upset.
Media playback is not supported on this device
Argentina's celebrations at the final whistle were wild and prolonged, while the sight of coach Alejandro Sabella embracing Messi at the tunnel gave an indication of what this meant to the two-time champions.
The build-up was dominated by talk of a rift between Messi and Sabella, the captain having expressed his displeasure at the 5-3-2 formation used in the first half against Bosnia-Hercegovina when Messi also scored the decisive goal.
Sabella duly reverted to the Barcelona forward's preferred 4-3-3 and was rewarded by his star man at the last.
Iran looked devastated at the end but must take immense confidence from a performance that combined defensive resilience with attacking adventure - and from the knowledge they could still qualify.
Carlos Queiroz's men actually created the first meaningful chance when Jala Hosseini headed wide from Ashkan Dejagah's free-kick, although Argentina then assumed control.
Javier Mascherano and Fernando Gago provided a solid base for Angel Di Maria and full-backs Pablo Zabaleta and Marcos Rojo to support Messi, Gonzalo Higuain and Sergio Aguero.
Iran goalkeeper Alireza Haghighi displayed superb reflexes to foil Higuain and save one-handed from Aguero. Rojo then headed narrowly wide, Messi was off target with a free-kick and Ezequiel Garay nodded inches over the bar. The Iran fans celebrated every reprieve like a goal.
"Lionel Messi is the difference in so many games and he's done it again. You know what he's going to do, take a step and curl it, but there's nothing the magnificent Iranians can do. It is just world class."
Argentina were meeting a wall of resistance every time they attacked but Iran's impressive defending ought to have been no surprise - they kept more clean sheets in qualifying than any team at the tournament. And when not thwarting the South Americans' forwards, Queiroz's team again came close to a goal of their own with another Hosseini header.
Iran's preparations for the competition had been hampered by political sanctions that affected their funding and ability to organise friendlies, but they looked fully prepared and again came close to taking a shock lead through Reza Ghoochannejhad.
Masoud Shojaei surged forward and fed Pejman Montazeri to cross for the Charlton Athletic striker, who would have scored had his header been aimed anywhere other than straight at Argentine keeper Sergio Romero.
But the chance served to further bolster Iran's self-belief and after Dejagah had a strong penalty claim rejected by referee Milorad Mazic, the Fulham man was thwarted by Romero's fingertips as he met another Montazeri cross with a powerful header.
Messi worked hard to swing the momentum back in Argentina's favour, slotting wide after a quick break and sending a free-kick into the side-netting, while Sabella introduced Rodrigo Palacio and Ezequiel Lavezzi in place of Aguero and Higuain as his side pushed hard for a winner.
Still chances came for Iran, however, Ghoochannejhad nearly stealing the win, only for Romero to make a diving stop - and that miss proved costly when captain Messi stepped up with a wonderful finish into the far corner to send Argentina through with a game to spare and keep them on course for a first World Cup since 1986.
Match ends, Argentina 1, Iran 0.
Second Half ends, Argentina 1, Iran 0.
Javier Mascherano (Argentina) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Amir Hossein Sadeqi (Iran).
Substitution, Argentina. Lucas Biglia replaces Ángel Di María.
Goal!  Argentina 1, Iran 0. Lionel Messi (Argentina) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Ezequiel Lavezzi.
Federico Fernández (Argentina) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Reza Ghoochanneijhad (Iran).
Substitution, Iran. Reza Haghighi replaces Ehsan Hajsafi.
Attempt saved. Reza Ghoochanneijhad (Iran) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Alireza Jahanbakhsh with a through ball.
Attempt missed. Marcos Rojo (Argentina) header from the centre of the box misses to the right following a corner.
Corner,  Argentina. Conceded by Jalal Hosseini.
Substitution, Iran. Alireza Jahanbakhsh replaces Ashkan Dejagah.
Corner,  Argentina. Conceded by Alireza Haghighi.
Attempt missed. Rodrigo Palacio (Argentina) header from a difficult angle on the left is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Javier Mascherano.
Foul by Marcos Rojo (Argentina).
Reza Ghoochanneijhad (Iran) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt missed. Marcos Rojo (Argentina) left footed shot from long range on the right misses to the left. Assisted by Ezequiel Lavezzi following a corner.
Corner,  Argentina. Conceded by Mehrdad Pooladi.
Corner,  Argentina. Conceded by Pejman Montazeri.
Substitution, Argentina. Rodrigo Palacio replaces Gonzalo Higuaín.
Substitution, Argentina. Ezequiel Lavezzi replaces Sergio Agüero.
Substitution, Iran. Khosro Heydari replaces Masoud Shojaei.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Andranik Teymourian (Iran) because of an injury.
Attempt saved. Ángel Di María (Argentina) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Marcos Rojo.
Attempt missed. Lionel Messi (Argentina) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left from a direct free kick.
Masoud Shojaei (Iran) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ángel Di María (Argentina) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Masoud Shojaei (Iran).
Ezequiel Garay (Argentina) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Javad Nekounam (Iran).
Corner,  Iran. Conceded by Marcos Rojo.
Corner,  Argentina. Conceded by Amir Hossein Sadeqi.
Corner,  Iran. Conceded by Sergio Romero.
Attempt saved. Ashkan Dejagah (Iran) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Pejman Montazeri with a cross.
Attempt blocked. Reza Ghoochanneijhad (Iran) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Ashkan Dejagah with a cross.
Corner,  Iran. Conceded by Ezequiel Garay.
Corner,  Iran. Conceded by Pablo Zabaleta.
Attempt blocked. Ehsan Hajsafi (Iran) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Javad Nekounam.