Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| Former Apple CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs seemed to know the iPhone would be transformational to the company's future before the company sold a single smartphone. 
  
 On January 9, 2007, the company dropped Computer from its name and became, simply, Apple. On the same day, Apple introduced iPhone. 
  
 Likewise, could Tesla Motors soon drop Motors from its name in a move to show the world just how seriously the company is taking its foray into energy storage? 
  
 Tesla Motors acquires Tesla.com 
  
 "Just wanted to thank Stu G for tesla.com," said Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Saturday on Twitter. "Know it meant a lot to you. Will take good care." 
  
 The tweet followed reports around the web that Tesla.com was now redirecting traffic to TeslaMotors.com. Until now, Tesla.com was owned by Stu Grossman, an engineer and Nikola Tesla fan who has had the rights to the name since 1992, according to Bloomberg. 
  
 After successfully acquiring Tesla.com, it wouldn't be surprising if Musk is planning a name change to Tesla. Musk even said during a question-and-answer session with press at the company's Tesla Energy event last year that, if it weren't for domain challenges, the CEO would consider changing the company's name to reflect its broader scope of operations with the introduction of its Powerwall and Powerpack energy-storage solutions under the Tesla Energy brand. 
  
 A strategic shift 
  
 Apple's Jobs justified dropping Computer from its name in 2007 with a quote from hall-of-fame NHL hockey player Wayne Gretzky: "I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been." 
  
 While Apple was already seeing success outside of computers with iPod when it changed its name, iPhones alone would have justified the name change. In Apple's most-recent quarter, iPhones represented a whopping 68% of the company's revenue. Similarly, a name change for Tesla could reflect the company's growing emphasis of the inclusion of energy products as a core segment. 
  
 Tesla's acquisition of Tesla.com notably follows a big deal for Tesla Energy to supply batteries for electric utility Kauai Island Utility Cooperative in conjunction with SolarCity's panels. The deal, which may be the biggest utility-scale storage project in North America in history, signals Tesla's confidence in its production ramp of energy products at its Gigafactory in Nevada. 
  
 Tesla has said that the company believes energy storage will eventually represent a third of the Gigafactory's production -- no small sum considering the Gigafactory is targeting cell production by 2020 that exceeds the world's total lithium-ion cell production in 2013. And progress in Tesla Energy is already underway. In the company's most-recent shareholder letter, Tesla said the segment already has positive gross margins, and that it expects it to contribute cash to the company's business "even with rapid growth." 
  
 While a name change to Tesla wouldn't be a magic pill for helping the company broaden its operations and grow its energy business, it would signal just how seriously it is taking Tesla Energy. 
  
 Get the latest Tesla stock price here. 
  
 Read the original article on The Motley Fool. Copyright 2016. Follow The Motley Fool on Twitter. ||||| Drivers must have a valid U.S. driver's license. 
  
 First Name Last Name Phone Number Email Address Country Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Caribbean Netherlands Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Mainland Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo (Brazzaville) Congo (Kinshasa) Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R., China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R., China Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu U.S. Virgin Islands Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Zip code 
  
 By clicking "Next" I agree to be contacted at the number provided with more information or offers about Tesla products. I understand these calls or texts may use computer-assisted dialing or pre-recorded messages. This consent is not a condition of purchase. |||||