CHICAGO -- For American women, a book club membership means more than having status as a reader, as it might pay dividends to them in the dating field as well. 
  
 A University of Kansas (KU) researcher as part of a study on gendered sexuality compared women's book clubs in Colorado and Ireland and made the finding regarding how the women in each country used the role of reading in romantic relationships. 
  
 "American women utilized their status as readers and book club members to increase their popularity in the dating field and explained that they would never date or marry a non-reader," said Christy Craig, a KU doctoral candidate in sociology. "Irish women did not find this as relevant, and many told me they joined book clubs because their significant others did not spend much time reading." 
  
 Craig will present her findings through the paper, "Not Just a Book Club: Gendered Sexual Identity Through the Lens of Women's Book Clubs," as part of the 110th Annual Meeting of the American Sociological Association (ASA). 
  
 She attended 36 book club meeting and interviewed 53 women from ages 19 to 80 as part of the project. Separate from the finding about how women view book clubs and the role of romantic relationships, both American and Irish women utilized reading to develop a sense of self, to foster social and cultural capital and to construct their own sexual identities. 
  
 "Conversations at book club meetings served to reinforce women's sense of self as well as provided a place for women to negotiate their sexuality, particularly through conversations about what kinds of women were being portrayed in books read by the group," Craig said. 
  
 One book that came up in every interview was the popular erotic romance novel by E.L. James "Fifty Shades of Grey." 
  
 "None of the women read Fifty Shades in their book clubs, but it was regularly discussed in that context," Craig said. "Overall, women I talked to about Fifty Shades felt conflicted." 
  
 On one hand, they felt the opportunity for women to access literature about sex in a more public way was indicative of great forward progress for women, she said. 
  
 "In this way, women saw possibility for empowerment as they felt more comfortable openly reading about sex and sexuality," Craig said. 
  
 For instance, seeing other women at the doctor's office reading the same thing put them more at ease, and they began having conversations with one another about a dialogue they would not have openly admitted to reading before. 
  
 "At the same time, many felt it was not truly as empowering as they wanted it to be, or as they hoped women's erotic fiction would be," Craig said. 
  
 The paper is part of Craig's larger dissertation project, and is aimed at using a comparative sociological examination of contemporary women's fiction and its readers to better understand how women construct sexuality amidst gendered cultural norms. 
  
 ### 
  
 About the University of Kansas 
  
 The University of Kansas is a major comprehensive research and teaching university. The university's mission is to lift students and society by educating leaders, building healthy communities and making discoveries that change the world. The KU News Service is the central public relations office for the Lawrence campus. 
  
 Papers presented at the ASA Annual Meeting are typically working papers that have not yet been published in peer reviewed journals. ||||| Alfred Charles Kinsey A sexologist with torrid tales surrounding their research...who'da thunkit? Kinsey faced allegations that he conducted his research on human sexuality to fulfill a personal kink, but was also praised for making sex a legitimate topic of discussion and bringing the study of homosexuality out of the closet. Sure, in the privacy of his attic Kinsey filmed some of his own sexual behavior with his fellow researchers. And he encouraged his staff to engage in amorous experimentation in order to gain the confidence of research subjects and more fully understand the topic they were studying. But Kinsey's work also helped to make one of the most basic aspects of human biology a respected area of study. The groundbreaking Kinsey reports accompanied the United States into the sexual liberation of the 1960s. NEWS: Can You Choose to Be Gay? 
  
 Stephen Hawking On his 70th birthday, Stephen Hawking commented that, to him, women were a "complete mystery." No wonder, since his personal history sounds like what would happen if Jerry Springer hosted Nova. Hawking divorced Jane Wilde, his wife of 25 years, and married one of his nurses. His nurse, Elaine Mason, divorced her own husband, the man who had designed Hawking's iconic speaking machine, for Hawking. But some of Hawking's former nurses claimed Mason psychologically abused and mentally manipulated the wheelchair-bound genius. In 2006, Hawking broke free of Mason and began to mend fences with his children from his first marriage. VIDEO: The Science of Sex vs. Love 
  
 Marie Curie Famous for her pioneering study of radiation, this star-crossed scientist's love life was just as conflicted, tragic and scandalous as the history of the energy she studied. Her husband, Frenchman Pierre Curie, slipped on a slick street in Paris during a storm and died after a horse drawn carriage crushed his skull. Heartbroken, Curie buried herself in her work to deal with her grief, until in 1910 she found solace in the arms a former student of Pierre's, Paul Langevin. But Langevin was a married man and five years her junior. The affair scandalized the French and fueled xenophobia against Curie, a native of Poland. NEWS: Chimps Have Better Sex Than Humans 
  
 Richard Feynman Compared to other famous physicists, Feynman was more of a stereotypical number cruncher. He loved numbers so much that his second wife considered them his mistress. She wasn't as forgiving of Feynman's dalliances with sweet lady calculus as Einstein and Schrödinger's wives had been with their actual sexual escapades. She divorced Feynman, a master of quantum mechanics, because of his love affair with math. Feynman's first wife had died of tuberculosis in 1945. But the third time was the charm for him. He married Gweneth Howarth and lived happily ever after in the beach house he bought with his share of the Nobel Prize award that he won in 1965. VIDEO: The Science of Sex Appeal 
  
 Erwin Schrödinger You may have heard of the theory of Shrödinger's cat , a hypothetical feline that may be either alive or dead depending on the random decay of a nuclear particle. It turns out Shrödinger was quite the Tom cat himself. The physicist got physical with numerous lovers. His wife, Anny, knew all about it. She had a lover of her own. The swinging scientist even went so far as to hire Arthur March as his lab assistant because he lusted after March's wife, Hilde. She bore Shrödinger a child, though she remained married to March. Shrödinger's two-woman harem eventually cost him an appointment at Oxford, since the idea of a polyamorous physicist was outside the cultural acceptability of the day. NEWS: Bats Have Creative Sex Lives 
  
 Feb. 14, 2012 - Einstein's hair wasn't the only wild thing about him. The famous physicist also had numerous sexual liaisons during his two marriages. Einstein's first marriage was miserable. He and his wife, Mileva Marić, even formed a contract in which she became little more than a household servant, including the conditions set by Einstein that, “You will renounce all personal relations with me insofar as they are not completely necessary for social reasons ... . You will stop talking to me if I request it.” After the inevitable divorce, Einstein married his cousin, Elsa Lowenthal, whom he was already sleeping with. But his second marriage didn't keep Einstein in line either. Six girlfriends were mentioned in letters to his wife. At least he was honest about it. NEWS: The Sex Lives of Black Truffles Surprising 
  
 American women who are members of books clubs may be getting more than just the pleasure of good conversation from their participation: They may also get an image boost when it comes to attracting a potential mate. 
  
 “American women used their participation in book club, and their status as readers, to increase their popularity in the dating field,” says Christy Craig, a doctoral candidate at the University of Kansas who will present her findings at the American Sociological Association this weekend. 
  
 Women in book clubs who were looking to date often added that they were in a book club to their online dating profile, for example. 
  
 NEWS: When Spirits Dictate Books: What’s To Believe? 
  
 The women also acknowledged the importance of using literature to help find men who were similarly engaged with literature. They are readers in search of other readers. 
  
 Craig visited 36 book clubs and interviewed 53 women in Dublin, Ireland and in Colorado. All the book clubs were exclusively female, and all the women in the clubs who were also in the dating pool were seeking male partners. 
  
 The women were between the ages of 24 and 80. 
  
 Both the Irish and American women used book clubs to fill a specific niche in their social lives — but that niche differed by country. The Irish women that Craig interviewed said that their romantic partners didn’t read and that they joined book club largely to meet other readers. 
  
 When More Sex Can Make You Less Happy 
  
 They also told her that attending book club came with a certain culture status they aspired to have. That same aspiration held true for American women in book clubs. 
  
 Yet the American women were also seeking more: those who were in the dating pool expressed the desire to be seen as readers by potential mates. 
  
 “The American women who were dating felt that reading and being book club members increased their popularity among the kinds of people they wanted to date,” Craig said. “They felt that being seen as a reader could benefit them romantically.” 
  
 They were also looking for men who read a specific type of literature. “The women drew a distinction between reading books and magazines,” she said. “When they were classifying literature, they didn’t count magazines as ‘real’ reading.” 
  
 VIDEO: Does Online Dating Work? Yes and No 
  
 Book clubs also served to help women deepen their understanding of themselves and their gender roles. “They would have conversations about which characters behaved appropriately, say about cheating on a spouse, and they were navigating where they fit through those conversations,” Craig said. 
  
 Despite this intersection between dating, sexuality and book clubs, members did not read any erotic fiction — or even any books they dubbed “chick lit” — in their clubs. 
  
 “50 Shades of Grey came up in every interview,” she said. “But women made sure to tell me that they didn’t read it, or chick lit, for their book clubs.” 
  
 Book club is where the serious stuff gets read, members emphasized. 
  
 “Its more about what book club means,” she said. “Its where you read books that are more serious.” |||||