Sisters Amanda, left, and Sara Eldritch are featured in a 2016 Littleton Adventist Hospital publication. Their bodies were found Friday near the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park. (Littleton Adventist Hospital / Courtesy Photo) 
  
 Twin sisters who gained fame after becoming the first people in Colorado to receive a pioneering surgery for obsessive compulsive disorder were found dead with gunshot wounds in Cañon City, the Fremont County Sheriff's Office confirmed Monday. 
  
 Sisters Amanda and Sara Eldritch were found Friday in a vehicle parked near a rest area at the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park. They were 33 years old. 
  
 The sisters, who lived in Broomfield, were the first people in Colorado to receive deep brain stimulation — a surgery commonly used for patients with Parkinson's disease — to treat their often-debilitating symptoms of OCD. 
  
 In a spring 2016 publication printed by Littleton Adventist Hospital, where they received the surgery, the twins said they began to feel at peace with their existence after receiving the treatment in spring 2015. One year after the treatment, Sara Eldritch told the hospital, "I feel like I can identify my anxiety. I can actually see where it's coming from. And I feel like I can deal with it." 
  
 But before the surgery, the story said, "they felt at war with their own existence. And in a desperate cry for help as adolescents, they tried taking their own lives." 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 For the sisters, coping with the disorder meant living with compulsions, such as taking 10-hour showers, 20-minute hand-washings and using dozens of bottles of rubbing alcohol to disinfect everything they touched. 
  
 For many patients with OCD, according to the hospital, unwanted thoughts become unavoidable, causing them to act on compulsions. 
  
 The deep brain stimulation was intended to inhibit overactive parts of the brain, halting anxiety and making therapy more effective. As part of the procedure, a surgeon, Dr. David VanSickle, placed electrodes on specific areas of their brains, with electrode wires under the skin of their heads, neck and shoulder. 
  
 The wires were then connected to a battery pack inserted into their chests. In programming appointments, doctors ensured that their brains received enough stimulation. 
  
 One year after the surgery, the spring 2016 publication said, the twins began finding "hope and joy in simple things like taking a morning walk — something they hadn't done in more than a decade." 
  
 And one year after the publication was printed, the twins were featured on an episode of the TV show, "The Doctors," where they were taken for spa treatments separately from each other to "help them break through their codependency," the show's website said. 
  
 The sisters also spent the night in two separate hotels as part of the show, where they found struggles but made it through the night, it said. 
  
 "I did kind of like the contrast of, this is what it's like to be alone, and this is what it's like to be back with my sister and friends," Amanda Eldritch said at the time. "I like having two things to compare." 
  
 The sheriff's office said in a news release that no other information is available at this time. 
  
 Sara Knuth: 719-276-7644, knuths@canoncitydailyrecord.com ||||| Twin sisters - the first in Colorado to receive a pioneering surgery to treat their obsessive compulsive disorder - were found fatally shot Friday in a vehicle near Royal Gorge Bridge and Park, the Fremont County Sheriff's Office said. 
  
 Sara and Amanda Eldritch, 33, of Broomfield, appear to have died in a suicide pact, said sheriff's spokeswoman Sgt. Megan Richards. 
  
 They had received deep brain stimulation at Littleton Adventist Hospital in the spring of 2015, the Cañon City Daily Record reported. 
  
 In the procedure, typically used for patients with Parkinson's disease or essential tremor, electrodes are placed on areas of the brain, says an article in the hospital's spring 2016 magazine. 
  
 "The electrode wires are placed under the skin of the head, neck, and shoulder, connecting with a battery pack (called a neurostimulator), which is implanted in the chest during a second procedure about a week later," the article says. "Then, routine programming appointments help ensure the brain gets the proper amount of stimulation." 
  
 Before the surgery, the article says, the sisters "felt at war with their own existence. And in a desperate cry for help as adolescents, they tried taking their own lives." 
  
 A year after the surgery, they were "finding hope and joy in simple things like taking a morning walk - something they hadn't done in more than a decade," the article says. 
  
 The sisters were featured on an episode of "The Doctors," a CBS talk show. 
  
 Friday, their bodies were found in a vehicle parked at a rest area near the Royal Gorge, the Sheriff's Office reported. A sheriff's news release Saturday said one body had been found. 
  
 "After further investigation and results from the autopsy," a Monday release said, "this appears to be an isolated incident, and there is no threat to the public." 
  
 - 
  
 Contact Ellie Mulder: 636-0198 
  
 Twitter: @lemarie ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. |||||