Shooting suspect, woman, in critical condition at hospital; Officials: Anyone still hiding at scene should call 911 
  
 Several people were killed and others were injured in a workplace shooting Thursday morning at a warehouse in Harford County, law enforcement officials say. 
  
 "(It's) another tragic event for us here in Harford County," Sheriff Jeffrey Gahler said. 
  
  
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Harford County Sheriff's Office officials said deputies were called to reports of a shooting at 9:06 a.m. at the Rite Aid Distribution Center along the 1500 block of Perryman Road, in the area of Spesutia Road. 
  
 Gahler said deputies and first responders were on the scene in just over five minutes, and rendered first aid where appropriate. 
  
 "There's a lot of police activity and ambulances and fire engines. They have the whole area blocked off. We've not been able to get in and out. We have our business locked down, since we're so close. There's not any way to get out of the area," said David Graf, with New German Performance. 
  
 WBAL-TV lead investigative reporter Jayne Miller said a law enforcement source said the shooting suspect is a woman who has been taken to a hospital. She was listed in critical condition. She has not yet been identified. 
  
 There are multiple fatalities and wounded victims, less than 10, according to a law enforcement official. Several victims were taken Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center. 
  
 Johns Hopkins Bayview Trauma director Dr. Raymond Fang said four people with gunshot wounds were brought by ground transportation to their level 2 trauma facility. 
  
 The families of the victims, who are all adults, still need to be notified, Fang said. He would not confirm whether one of the patients being treated is the suspected shooter. 
  
 Officials said another victim was taken to Christiana Hospital in Newark, Delaware. The Associated Press is reporting that three people were killed. No further details about the victims were immediately available. 
  
 White Marsh Volunteer Fire Company said its paramedics responded to the incident. 
  
  
  
 Gahler said a single weapon -- a handgun -- was used in the incident and that no shots were fired by law enforcement at the scene. He said authorities do not believe there is any additional threat to the community. 
  
 "We have responders here from the federal government who were on scene within minutes -- the FBI, the DEA, the ATF, the (Maryland) State Police, the MDTA Police, the Natural Resources (Police), the local municipal departments of Aberdeen, Havre de Grace and Bel Air," Gahler said. "You can't have enough police, and you can't have them fast enough." 
  
 Harford County Executive Barry Glassman said he provided Gov. Larry Hogan an update on the situation. 
  
 "(Hogan) offered all of his resources available under state government," Glassman said. 
  
 Glassman said that first responders in the county train for this type of incident. 
  
 "Every agency performed at the top of their profession and the response from all our allied agencies was great," Glassman said. "I am thankful to all agencies that came out to help us today." 
  
 Authorities are working to reunite displaced workers with loved ones. 
  
 "We really reach out to those families that are suffering right now that lost loved ones and offer our services as we begin to get them reunified, not only with loved ones lost, but with workers that have been displaced," Glassman said. 
  
 At this time the Harford County Sheriffs Office would anyone that may still be in the building to dial 911 so deputies can locate you — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 Witness describe harrowing scene 
  
 A witness, Bo, who did not want to share his last name, described the scene. 
  
 "We were like two blocks over when we got completely bombarded by -- I'm not exaggerating -- 20-30 cops, and then ambulances and everything started pouring in. At that point, they blocked us in and we tried to turn around," Bo said. "They're telling us that there is an active shooter." 
  
 Alexi Scharmann told WBAL-TV 11 News her mother works inside the Liberty building at the distribution center. She said her mother texted her that there was a shooter inside the building. 
  
 "Everybody there is so tight-knit. There's not that many people that work there. Everybody is so nice over there, that's why it's a shock," Scharmann said. 
  
 While there is security and metal detectors in an adjacent building, Scharmann said the Liberty building where her mother works does not have the same safeguards. 
  
 Scharmann said she heard from her mother in a text at 10:33 a.m., saying, "I am outside and safe. I love you." 
  
 There is a family reunification center at the Level Fire Company at 3633 Level Village Road in Havre de Grace. The Harford County Emergency Operations Center is partially activated due to the situation and the Harford County Information Hotline at 410-838-5800 has been activated for people trying to get in touch with family and loved ones. 
  
 Bo, who said he lives on Aberdeen Proving Ground, said the area is wooded and has nearby schools. 
  
 "This happened inside the warehouse (on Perryman Road)," Bo said. "They called a bunch of EMS and they told us they were carrying out another five victims." 
  
 Bo said the response from police and paramedics was swift. 
  
 "We didn't know what to do. They were coming in groups of 10. I am not joking, and they were running people off the road. There was even an accident and a head-on collision dead in front of us at a stoplight because they were literally throwing people off the road. They were going," Bo said. 
  
 Church Creek Elementary School is on modified lockdown. Motorists are asked to avoid the area. 
  
 No further details were immediately available. 
  
 Stay with WBALTV.com and 11 News for more on this developing story. 
  
 Thanks to our @Harford_Sheriff department and allied agencies for a tremendous response to the workplace shooting this morning. @HarfordCountyMD is grateful. Our prayers go out to our victims and their families. — Barry Glassman (@HarfordExec) September 20, 2018 
  
 4 victims taken to @hopkinsbayview priority 1. No update on conditions- patients families are still being notified #wbal — Kim Dacey WBAL (@kimdaceywbal) September 20, 2018 
  
 HCSO would like to thank the following partners. FBI, DEA, MSP, MDTA, Aberdeen Police, Bel Air Police, and Havre de Grace Police — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 HCSO is still in the early stages of this investigation. Additional information will be released as it becomes available. — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 A family reunification center is set up at the Level Volunteer Fire House, 3633 Level Village rd Havre de Grace — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 Based on what we know, thus was a lone suspect. The suspect is in custody and in critical condition at the hospital — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 At this time we can confirm multiple wounded and multiple fatalities — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 HCSO is still in the preliminary stages of this investigation. 1 suspect is in custody at this time — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 Sheriff Gahler expresses that thoughts and prayers go out to all involved and their families — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 Harford Co Sheriff confirms multiple fatalities and wounded in shooting at Aberdeen warehouse building..says suspect in critical condition..says no officer fired pic.twitter.com/GrdvTLYyg0 — Jayne Miller (@jemillerwbal) September 20, 2018 
  
 Family reunification center pic.twitter.com/Qd7WDqD61m — Kate Amara (@kateamaraWBAL) September 20, 2018 
  
 Huge law enforcement on scene at multiple shooting in Aberdeen. But urgency has died down since it was active. #wbal pic.twitter.com/IfBKspuoXz — Lowell Melser (@MelserWBAL) September 20, 2018 
  
 At Level Hall in Havre de Grace pic.twitter.com/uOfC26DPgD — Kate Amara (@kateamaraWBAL) September 20, 2018 
  
 At Level Fire co in havre de grace: family reunification center to family members slowly trickling in, see some clergy members. IF YOU ARE WORRIED ABOUT A LOVED ONE...this is the place to go. — Kate Amara (@kateamaraWBAL) September 20, 2018 
  
 BREAKING: Law enforcement official: Multiple people killed in a shooting in Harford County, Maryland. — The Associated Press (@AP) September 20, 2018 
  
 Update: law enforcement source says Aberdeen shooting suspect is a woman, has been taken to a hospital..multiple dead and wounded victims, less than 10 — Jayne Miller (@jemillerwbal) September 20, 2018 
  
 I just spoke with @HarfordExec Barry Glassman​ and @Harford_Sheriff Jeff Gahler to express our continued support. https://t.co/Wp9fDjitE3 — Governor Larry Hogan (@GovLarryHogan) September 20, 2018 
  
 Just spoke w @GovLarryHogan and updated him. @Harford_Sheriff Gahler will update everyone on this incident shortly. — Barry Glassman (@HarfordExec) September 20, 2018 
  
 Medic leaving area of shooting with multiple victims in business park in Aberdeen. Aberdeen police just told me shooter not apprehended, situation "fluid" pic.twitter.com/8FmRRA7WnE — Jayne Miller (@jemillerwbal) September 20, 2018 
  
 ALERT Harford Co. - Police activity closes Perryman Road (MD 159) and Old Philadelphia Road (MD 7). Please avoid the area. VJ #MDOTNews #MDTraffic — MD State Highway Adm (@MDSHA) September 20, 2018 
  
 .@MDSP is on the scene assisting @Harford_Sheriff. We stand ready to offer any additional support needed. https://t.co/1eTpLcUzQx — Governor Larry Hogan (@GovLarryHogan) September 20, 2018 
  
 WBAL-TV\Julian Ingram 
  
 WBAL-TV\Julian Ingram 
  
 We are closely monitoring the horrific shooting in Aberdeen. Our prayers are with all those impacted, including our first responders. The State stands ready to offer any support. https://t.co/fzugpo8C1Z — Governor Larry Hogan (@GovLarryHogan) September 20, 2018 
  
 FBI Baltimore is responding & assisting @Harford_Sheriff with an Active Shooter situation. For updates please follow @Harford_Sheriff. — FBI Baltimore (@FBIBaltimore) September 20, 2018 
  
 Our thoughts are with first responders and everyone impacted by the incident in Aberdeen. #BeSafe @CecilCoGov — CecilCoGov (@CecilCoGov) September 20, 2018 
  
 We can confirm there was a shooting in the area of Spesutia Road and Perryman Road. Multiple victims. The situation is still fluid. Please avoid the area. Media staging area still TBD. — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 HCSO is investigating the report of shots fired in the area of Spesutia Road and Perryman Road. Please avoid the area. PIO is responding. — Harford Sheriff (@Harford_Sheriff) September 20, 2018 
  
 AlertMe ||||| Shirley Pollack, of Perryville, Md. reacts to what authorities have called a shooting with multiple victims in Perryman, Md. on Thursday, Sept. 20, 2018. Authorities say multiple people have been shot... (Associated Press) 
  
 Shirley Pollack, of Perryville, Md. reacts to what authorities have called a shooting with multiple victims in Perryman, Md. on Thursday, Sept. 20, 2018. Authorities say multiple people have been shot in northeast Maryland in what the FBI is describing as an "active shooter situation." Pollack,was... (Associated Press) 
  
 ABERDEEN, Md. (AP) — Three people were killed Thursday morning in a shooting at a Rite Aid distribution center in northeast Maryland, officials said. 
  
 A law enforcement official with knowledge of the shooting stressed that the number of dead is based on preliminary information. The official wasn't authorized to discuss details by name and spoke on condition of anonymity to The Associated Press. 
  
 A suspect was taken into custody and was in critical condition, Harford County Sheriff Jeffrey Gahler told a news conference. 
  
 It appears there was only one weapon, a handgun, that was used and there were no shots fired by responding law enforcement officers, Gahler said. Gahler also said multiple people had been killed and wounded in the shooting, without giving any other details on casualties. 
  
 Gahler said the call about shots fired came in from the Rite Aid distribution center at about 9:06 a.m. and deputies and other officers were on the scene in just over five minutes. 
  
 "We are so preliminary in this investigation," Gahler said. "It's so important that we deal in facts." He said authorities don't want to "make it worse" for the families involved by giving out incorrect information. 
  
 The attack came nearly three months after a man armed with a shotgun attacked a newspaper office in Annapolis, Maryland, killing five staff members. Authorities accused Jarrod W. Ramos of attacking The Capital Gazette because of a longstanding grudge against the paper. 
  
 The FBI described the Aberdeen incident as an "active shooter situation" and said its Baltimore field office was assisting. 
  
 In a tweet, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan said his office is monitoring the situation in Aberdeen and that the state stands ready to offer any support. 
  
 Susan Henderson, spokesman for the drugstore chain Rite Aid, said the shooting happened on the campus of a company distribution center in Aberdeen. She described it as a support facility adjacent to a larger building. 
  
 Harford County Executive Barry Glassman said that unfortunately, incidents like this are "becoming a too-often occurrence not only in Harford County but in the country." 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writer Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. |||||