Their combative contest remains in flux, with former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania now in a statistical tie with Mitt Romney after Mr. Santorum’s victories in Colorado , Minnesota and Missouri . Mr. Santorum’s sharp rise in the polls underscores some of Mr. Romney’s perceived weaknesses, with voters saying that Mr. Santorum shares their values and that they connect to his blue-collar economic message. 
  
 Polls can capture only a specific moment in time. To the extent that Mr. Obama’s improved standing is tied to the economy, it is tenuous. Grim economic news continues to trickle out of Europe . Iranian saber rattling is increasing the sense of instability in the Middle East . Even the White House warns that jobless numbers are as likely to rise in the coming months as they are to dip. 
  
 Photo 
  
 More people said they disapproved of Mr. Obama’s handling of the economy, 50 percent, than said they approved, 44 percent. And he received poor marks on his handling of the federal budget deficit, with 59 percent of poll respondents expressing disapproval. 
  
 Mr. Obama led all four remaining Republican presidential candidates in theoretical one-on-one competitions, including the presumed front-runner, Mr. Romney But the president’s general election prospects could change drastically when the opposition finally settles on a nominee, who will most likely win an immediate boost of support and enthusiasm, if history is a guide. 
  
 Yet the poll results show how hard it is to predict how quickly the Republicans will reach that juncture. 
  
 Eight nominating contests, about 20 closely watched debates and several months of heavy state-by-state campaigning have seemingly failed to settle a restive Republican electorate that is highly motivated in its goal of limiting Mr. Obama to a single term but shows lingering signs of nervous indecision about whom it wants to assign the task of taking him on. 
  
 Republican primary voters indicated they were less than satisfied with their choices, with more than 6 in 10 saying they wished there were more candidates to choose from, and nearly the same number saying they could change their minds. The instability of the Republican presidential race is now redounding to the benefit of Mr. Santorum, whose new strength points up the persistent weaknesses that Mr. Romney has with those who describe themselves as evangelical Christians, supportive of the Tea Party or conservative, all of whom favored Mr. Santorum in the latest poll. 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 Republicans who described themselves as primary and caucus voters still overwhelmingly view Mr. Romney as the candidate best equipped to defeat Mr. Obama, but that was not the most important quality for them in the poll; it ranked far behind “strong moral character.” 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 That mood has appeared to help Mr. Santorum, who frequently promotes his family life with his wife, Karen, and their seven children, and has long had a reputation for his opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage . 
  
 “Rick Santorum seems by and large the most truly conservative candidate, instead of just portraying himself as a conservative,” Jonathan Reed, 52, of Sylvester, Ga., said in a follow-up interview. 
  
 Video 
  
 But Republican primary voters also chose economic issues as paramount over social issues, and they viewed Mr. Santorum as the candidate who would most help middle-class Americans. In addition, more than two-thirds of them said his political philosophy was just right, not too conservative or too liberal. 
  
 Conversely, nearly a third of Republican primary voters said Mr. Romney would favor the rich, roughly the same number that said he was not conservative enough, a perception that could nonetheless help him in a general election: In theoretical contests against Mr. Obama, he performs best among the Republican field. 
  
 But the poll showed that even Mr. Romney would lose to Mr. Obama by six percentage points among all registered voters if the election were held today. The past couple of months appear to have greatly harmed Mr. Romney’s standing with independent voters, who favored him over Mr. Obama in January by 46 percent to 39 percent but now favor Mr. Obama over Mr. Romney by 49 percent to 38 percent. 
  
 Mr. Romney does have an apparent opening against Mr. Santorum. Nearly half of all registered voters said they had not yet formed an opinion about him, which Mr. Romney’s team is likely to exploit by trying to define him in negative terms in the lead-up to remaining primaries and caucuses. And only one in seven Republican primary voters said Mr. Santorum had the best chance of defeating Mr. Obama. 
  
 Roughly the same number named Newt Gingrich , who was in a statistical tie for third place with Representative Ron Paul of Texas , though both lagged far behind Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney. 
  
 The nationwide poll was based on telephone interviews conducted Feb. 8 to Feb. 13 on land lines and cellphones with 1,197 adults, including 331 self-described Republican primary or caucus voters, and has margins of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all adults and five percentage points for Republican voters. 
  
 Mr. Romney still did well in the poll when it came to his No. 1 campaign theme of the economy. More than 7 in 10 Republican primary voters said they were very or somewhat confident that Mr. Romney, who once headed the investment firm Bain Capital , could be trusted to make the right decisions about the economy. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “I think with his background of making money he can make the nation some money,” said Daniel Wiechart, 21, of Danville, Ky., who is preparing to begin law school. “He exudes an economically responsible aura, if you will.” ||||| CBS News 
  
 President Obama holds a significant lead over each of his potential Republican opponents in the general election, according to a poll released Tuesday by CBS News and the New York Times. That includes Mitt Romney, who was even with Mr. Obama last month. 
  
 The new survey shows the president leading Romney by six points, 48 percent to 42 percent, among registered voters. Last month, the two men were tied at 45 percent each. 
  
 Mr. Obama's lead over former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, who has surged to a lead in national polls, is eight points: 49 percent to 41 percent. 
  
  
  
 Romney's drop in support against the president is attributable to a shift among independents. Last month, independents favored the former Massachusetts governor by eight points over Mr. Obama. In the new survey, Mr. Obama holds the edge, leading Romney among independents by nine points. 
  
  
  
 The president holds double-digit leads over the other two GOP candidates in the race, Rep. Ron Paul and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Mr. Obama leads Paul 50 percent to 39 percent - an 11 point margin - and he leads Gingrich 54 percent to 36 percent, a difference of 18 points. 
  
 The findings come as the GOP candidates seek to cast themselves as the potential nominee with the best chance of beating Mr. Obama in November. Santorum is out with a new ad in Michigan, which holds its primary on February 28, which opens: "Who has the best chance to beat Obama? Rick Santorum." 
  
  
  
 Santorum holds a narrow lead over Romney among Republican primary voters nationwide, according to the new survey. Santorum had the support of 30 percent of GOP primary voters, followed by Romney at 27 percent, Paul at 12 percent and Gingrich at 10 percent. (The difference between Santorum and Romney is statistically insignificant, as it is within the poll's three point margin of error.) Santorum, who has gained momentum from a three-state sweep last Tuesday, was at just 16 percent nationally last month. 
  
 Getty Images 
  
 Romney is widely seen as the candidate with the best chance to beat Mr. Obama: 55 percent of Republican primary voters say Romney is the most electable candidate. No other candidate is seen as having the best chance to win by more than 15 percent of GOP primary voters. 
  
 But Romney is not seen as reflecting Republican primary voters' values. Just 23 percent say Romney is the candidate who best represents their values, while 39 percent choose Santorum. 
  
 Roughly one in three Republican primary voters say Romney, who has been attacked over his moderate record as Massachusetts governor, holds views that are not conservative enough. By contrast, only seven percent say that Santorum's views are insufficiently conservative. Santorum leads Romney by at least twelve points among the most conservative members of the GOP: self-described conservatives, Tea Partiers and white evangelicals. 
  
 And while at least half of GOP primary voters say Santorum, Gingrich and Paul would offer policies that would be "very different" than Mr. Obama, just 36 percent say Romney's policies would be "very different" than those of the president. 
  
 Santorum is also seen as the candidate most likely to help the middle class: Thirty-two percent of GOP primary voters say Santorum would be most likely to help middle class Americans, while 19 percent cite Romney, 18 percent cite Gingrich and 18 percent cite Paul. Among registered voters overall, 53 percent say Romney favors the rich over other Americans; only 31 percent say the same of Santorum. 
  
 Romney has pointed to his business experience to say argue he is well prepared to steer the U.S. economy, which voters overwhelmingly cite as their top issue. But the new survey shows Santorum with a slight - if significantly insignificant - edge when it comes to Republican primary voters' confidence in their ability to manage the economy. Twenty-seven percent are "very" confident Santorum could manage the economy, compared to 25 percent for Romney, 24 percent for Gingrich and 17 percent for Paul. 
  
 Despite his lead in the national poll, Santorum is the least well known of the Republican presidential candidates. Roughly half of registered voters say they don't know enough to form an opinion about Santorum; those who do are split, with 27 percent holding a favorable view and 25 percent holding an unfavorably view. 
  
 Romney, meanwhile, is solidly in negative territory: While 26 percent of registered voters view him favorably, 40 percent view him unfavorably. Gingrich's favorability numbers are even worse: Just 16 percent view him favorably, while 54 percent view him unfavorably. 
  
 Republican primary voters remain dissatisfied with their candidates: 62 percent say they want more choices while 34 percent say they are happy with the field. Sixty percent of GOP primary voters who have picked a candidate say they could still change their mind, while 39 percent say they have settled on a candidate. 
  
 The survey, conducted from February 8-13, also found Mr. Obama's approval rating reaching 50 percent amid rising optimism over the economy. 
  
 Poll: Rick Santorum takes slight lead in GOP race 
  
 Poll: Most back mandating contraception coverage 
  
 Poll: Most GOP voters think long primary hurts nominee 
  
 Poll: Obama's ratings rise as economic outlook improves 
  
 In full: The new CBS News/New York Times poll 
  
 997 interviews were conducted with registered voters. Phone numbers were dialed from samples of both standard land-line and cell phones. The error due to sampling for results based on the entire sample could be plus or minus three percentage points. The margin of error for the sample of registered voters could be plus or minus three points. The error for subgroups may be higher. This poll release conforms to the Standards of Disclosure of the National Council on Public Polls. |||||