FILE - In this June 2, 2014 file photo, pedestrians cross the street in front of the Moscone Center, which is hosting the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference, in San Francisco. Apple is expected to... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this June 2, 2014 file photo, pedestrians cross the street in front of the Moscone Center, which is hosting the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference, in San Francisco. Apple is expected to... (Associated Press) 
  
 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Apple's iTunes helped change the way music-lovers bought their favorite songs, replacing plastic discs with digital downloads. Now the maker of iPods and iPhones wants to carve out a leading role in a revolution well under way, with a new, paid streaming-music service set to launch this summer. 
  
 With millions of listeners already tuning in to streaming outlets like Pandora and Spotify, analysts and music-industry sources say Apple has been gearing up to launch its own service, aimed at winning back some of those customers and nudging longtime iTunes users into a new mode of listening. 
  
 Apple is expected to announce the service at its annual conference for software developers, which kicks off Monday in San Francisco. In a keynote session, CEO Tim Cook and other executives are also expected to show off new features in Apple's operating software for iPhones, iPads and Macintosh computers, as well as tools for building new apps for the Apple Watch. Analysts also expect enhancements to the mobile-payment service known as Apple Pay. 
  
 The world's biggest tech company makes most of its money from selling handheld gadgets, like the popular iPhone, and other computer hardware. But Apple uses its annual World Wide Developers Conference to highlight the software, online services and apps that make those devices indispensable to consumers around the world. 
  
 Along with a new music service, industry experts had been expecting Apple to announce a new streaming-video package and upgrades for its Apple TV service. But that may be delayed, according to reports by the New York Times and the tech blog Re/code, which said Apple is still negotiating with broadcasters and isn't ready to announce the video service. 
  
 That puts the spotlight on Apple's music initiative. Analysts say the company needs to build a robust streaming business if it wants to maintain its central role in the popular-music ecosystem. Most recordings today are still sold through digital stores like iTunes, which opened in 2003. But those sales have declined, while streaming services are rapidly gaining subscribers and revenue. 
  
 "Streaming media is increasingly important to the computer-using experience, so it's important for Apple to have a role there," said Creative Strategies analyst Ben Bajarin. 
  
 About 41 million people globally now pay for streaming music from Spotify, Deezer and other outlets, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, which says subscription revenue grew 39 percent last year to $1.6 billion. Overall download sales fell 8 percent to $3.6 billion. 
  
 Apple Inc. bought the Beats headphone maker and music streaming service for $3 billion last year, but publishers' data confirmed by royalty tracking company Audiam shows Beats Music had just 303,000 U.S. subscribers as of December, compared to 4.7 million in the U.S. for market leader Spotify. 
  
 While Apple wouldn't comment last week, a person familiar with its plans said Apple has an ambitious goal to sign up 100 million subscribers for a new streaming service that will cost $10 a month and compete with other on-demand services such as Spotify and Rhapsody. Beats users will be migrated over before eventually closing down, and buyers of songs and albums on iTunes will also be presented with the option to purchase a subscription instead. 
  
 Along with a lengthy three-month free trial period for the paid service, the company also plans to bolster its free offering, iTunes Radio, with a live online radio station featuring DJs like former BBC host Zane Lowe and artists Pharell, Drake, Muse and David Guetta. 
  
 The person spoke on condition of anonymity because negotiations between the company and record labels were private. 
  
 "They are very late to the game on streaming," said analyst Van Baker at the Gartner research firm. But he said Apple can still catch up by making it easy for iPhone owners to use the new service. That's a huge pool of potential customers: Apple sold 61 million iPhones in the last quarter alone. 
  
 Aside from music, analysts expect Apple will tout improvements to other services like Apple Pay and Siri, the voice-activated digital assistant for iPhones and iPads. Apple has also hinted it will release programming tools for its new smartwatch. 
  
 Most apps available for the Apple Watch are extensions of apps that run on the iPhone. Independent app-builders like Jordan Edelson, CEO of Appetizer Mobile, are hoping Apple will release the code to build apps that interact directly with sensors and controls on the watch. 
  
 "That would let us build some really cool experiences," added Edelson, who said it could make the watch more appealing to consumers who aren't sure now if they need one. 
  
 Edelson also predicted Apple will introduce software that ties other products more closely together, such as apps that make the iPhone into a controller for television sets and other appliances. 
  
 That's a smart strategy, said Forrester Research analyst Frank Gillett. "Once you start organizing your life around Apple products, you're less likely to ditch your iPhone and go over to Android," he said, referring to the competing technology from Apple's rival, Google. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Nakashima reported from Los Angeles. ||||| Apple May Be About To Throw A Lifeline To Jay Z’s Tidal 
  
 Today, in some enormous mansion, or perhaps aboard a private jet streaming towards a glamorous destination, Jay Z is sitting back and cracking a broad grin. 
  
 For in Cannes, Sony Music CEO Doug Morris just made the music mogul’s day. 
  
 On stage at the Midem Music Industry Festival, Morris spilled the beans about tomorrow’s launch of the much-anticipated music streaming service from Apple . And this is poised to have far-reaching implications for Jay Z’s’s own much-trumpeted, but struggling, Tidal streaming service. 
  
 Morris is surely an insider on this announcement, given that Sony Music’s participation would be essential to Apple’s plans. 
  
 Quoted by Venturebeat, Morris said “It’s happening tomorrow… What does Apple bring to this?… Well, they’ve got $178 billion dollars in the bank. And they have 800 million credit cards in iTunes. Spotify has never really advertised because it’s never been profitable. My guess is that Apple will promote this like crazy and I think that will have a halo effect on the streaming business… A rising tide will lift all boats… It’s the beginning of an amazing moment for our industry.” 
  
 He said “several times” that he prefers paid streaming services to ad-supported ones and enthused that the Apple launch would be a “tipping point” for the shift to streaming over downloads. 
  
 While details are scarce, the industry standard has been hovering around $9.99 per month. It’s been reported that the Apple service will include curated playlists and suggestions by well-known DJs and musicians. 
  
 This may therefore be the salvation of Jay Z and Tidal. 
  
 Tidal has been very late to the music streaming race. It has no free, ad-supported tier to whet users’ appetite before they plump for subscription; and with an expensive $20 a month ‘HD’ service plumped up with exclusive launches, some believe it could help a bigger swing back to piracy. Plus it looks like a bunch of incredibly rich musicians whining about not being richer. 
  
 But Apple may be about to throw it a life-line. 
  
 Apple is almost certainly going to bring in some very big names to curate the experience for users. It already has the much-respected former BBC radio presenter and DJ Zane Lowe who is known to be working hard behind the scenes on this very aspect. And if the curation service also pulls in the rapper Drake (as rumoured) and others, then that’s all the ‘access’ you need. Fuck Tidal’s exclusives. 
  
 Imagine for a second this idea: Taylor Swift joins Apple’s new streaming service and launches her presence with not only her own material but a selection of the best music and artists she’s listening to right now. 
  
 Imagine, instead of another U2 album, we get Bono’s picks of the best up-and-coming Irish rock bands? (Ok, just go with it for now, OK?) 
  
 Imagine, as well as some new material from Norman Jay, we get his picks of the best underground dance music tunes from the last year? 
  
 The launch of Tidal missed a trick. Users don’t want an Avengers-style line-up of artists all on one platform. They want to follow the tastes of their idols. 
  
 And that showed up Jay Z’s strategic mistake, but also how he can turn this into a big payday. Because he clearly isn’t really in this to win the streaming war, but just to get a huge fat liquidity event from Tidal. 
  
 Instead of working to make Tidal a unique experience, where these stars curate the platform, he’s built a beautiful walled garden and sat back, asking the two biggest players to instead buy the garden. This is like selling the artists back to their own records labels. HD listening isn’t there for “the kids”, it’s there to bolster the valuation of the service. 
  
 And from what we can gather, the word in LA is that even after Tidal’s PR disaster, Jay Z is still looking at acquisitions to bolster the valuation. He has the ability to drive major value. 
  
 The launch of Apple’s own streaming service will, perversely, increase the valuation of Tidal. 
  
 Remember, Morris said this will “have a halo effect on the streaming business… A rising tide will lift all boats.” 
  
 Apple’s streaming is good for Tidal because it will promote the whole idea to a much wider mainstream userbase. 
  
 Either Tidal will gradually win more actual customers, because Apple will be pushing the streaming model, OR Apple will acquire it for its roster of artists and switch them into being curators as well. 
  
 Could Apple just pick-off the artists? Perhaps, but in reality Tidal looks like a “Union for the 1%”, even though admittedly they have said they intend to open it up and make it usable by any/all who will join, not just a select group. But it’s all or nothing. And they all have a share in the sale. And Jay Z the largest share, no doubt. 
  
 Even if Tidal fails as a platform, its roster of artists and its streaming model will now dovetail with any competitor. 
  
 Plus, Spotify could take the role of saviour of Tidal’s rebellious artists but pulling off some enormous deal. Should it want to. 
  
 And let’s not forget the sleeping giant of YouTube, which Google could relatively easily flip into a full-blown streaming service, if it could get the product right. 
  
 Meanwhile, if David is Spotify and Apple is Goliath, Tidal is a soldier taking a random potshot from the sidelines hoping to attract attention. 
  
 Whatever happens, Jay Z is probably going to enjoy his breakfast this morning. |||||