Fairy Bricks has one very simple objective. To give LEGO to children in hospital. When we tell people that they often pause before they respond, anticipating for us to say something else but that really is it. Our charitable aim is very simple and straightforward, and as a charity we act in a very similar way. 
  
 From humble beginnings and a single hospital donation in 2012, we now aim to deliver LEGO with a retail value of approximately £5000 per month throughout the UK and sometimes beyond. In the later half of 2017 we are hoping to increase that to £7500 of sets each and every month. 
  
 Play is a vital part of the recovery process when children are in hospital. It provides comfort, distraction and is even used as an educational tool by Play Specialists to assist children with procedures they have to endure. LEGO itself as a product is perfect for this. It is an item many children are already familiar with and can provide an instant escape at a very difficult time. Then by it’s very nature when tomorrow comes it can be rebuilt to help the same child with something else or move to another child to start the process all over again. ||||| Russell Cassevah of Chesapeake might be going in the history books. This weekend he attempted to break the Guinness World Record for longest barefoot Lego brick walk. 
  
 Cassevah walked across a 120 foot long Lego brick pathway at Chesapeake Montessori School. He did it to bring awareness and raise funds for FairyBricks. FairyBricks is a charity that donates Lego sets to hospitalized children. 
  
 In November, FairyBricks had 2,000 Lego sets stolen from one of their delivery vans in the United Kingdom. 
  
 On Sunday, family and friends cheered Cassevah as he made the treacherous walk. The current world record is 85 feet. He decided to take it up a notch by adding on 35 feet. 
  
 According to Guinness Book of World Records guidelines, there had to be a podiatrist on site to inspect his feet before and afterwards. 
  
 Cassevah will submit the video to Guinness for review. 
  
 He hoped this feat will get more people to donate to FairyBricks. Visit Brainy Bricks Nation if you would like to contribute to the fundraiser. 
  
 Their goal is to raise $10,000 by January 31. |||||