Matt Green headed home Hurst's cross to give Mansfield the lead but Jack Compton's free-kick brought County level.
Danny Rose restored Mansfield's lead but Joss Labadie equalised with a tap in from Mark Randall's free-kick.
But Hurst's curling 20-yard effort, his first goal since September 2014, secured victory.
County, whose starting line-up included 10 summer signings, had gone into the opening game without a league win in 11 matches.
Newport County manager Warren Feeney told BBC Radio Wales: "I'm gutted for them. We've lost the game but I think there's more than enough in that changing room and they showed it today.
"We showed great character to get back into the game.
"I thought for the majority of the game, bar the 20-25 minutes in the second half, we were the better side."
Match ends, Newport County 2, Mansfield Town 3.
Second Half ends, Newport County 2, Mansfield Town 3.
Goal!  Newport County 2, Mansfield Town 3. Kevan Hurst (Mansfield Town) right footed shot from outside the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Ashley Hemmings.
Attempt missed. Joss Labadie (Newport County) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Mark Randall (Newport County) is shown the yellow card for dangerous play.
Foul by Mark Randall (Newport County).
Chris Clements (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt missed. Sean Rigg (Newport County) header from the centre of the box misses to the left.
Sean Rigg (Newport County) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Mitch Rose (Mansfield Town).
Foul by Marlon Jackson (Newport County).
Malvind Benning (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Marlon Jackson (Newport County).
Lee Collins (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Mansfield Town. Pat Hoban replaces Matt Green.
Joss Labadie (Newport County) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Malvind Benning (Mansfield Town).
Corner,  Newport County. Conceded by Malvind Benning.
Substitution, Mansfield Town. Ashley Hemmings replaces Danny Rose.
Goal!  Newport County 2, Mansfield Town 2. Joss Labadie (Newport County) right footed shot from very close range to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Mark Randall with a cross following a set piece situation.
Dan Butler (Newport County) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Rhys Bennett (Mansfield Town).
Corner,  Mansfield Town. Conceded by Joe Day.
Attempt saved. Matt Green (Mansfield Town) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Jamie Turley (Newport County) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Matt Green (Mansfield Town).
Foul by Marlon Jackson (Newport County).
Rhys Bennett (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Substitution, Newport County. Ben Tozer replaces Jennison Myrie-Williams.
Mark Randall (Newport County) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Danny Rose (Mansfield Town).
Joss Labadie (Newport County) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Chris Clements (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Joss Labadie (Newport County).
Substitution, Mansfield Town. Kyle Howkins replaces Adam Chapman.
Goal!  Newport County 1, Mansfield Town 2. Danny Rose (Mansfield Town) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Lee Collins.
Foul by Jazzi Barnum-Bobb (Newport County).
Matt Green (Mansfield Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Attempt missed. Jack Compton (Newport County) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.