Fires continue to rage in Tianjin after blasts rocked the city, leaving at least 50 people dead and hundreds injured 
  
 China blasts: fireball from Tianjin explosions kills at least 50 – latest updates 天津港大爆炸 Read more 
  
 Dozens of people are feared dead and fires are still raging after a warehouse filled with “dangerous chemicals” exploded in the Chinese city of Tianjin, sending a mushroom cloud into the air. 
  
 Tianjin, a port city of about 14 million residents, was rocked by a series of devastating explosions about 11.30pm on Wednesday night (4.30pm GMT, 1.30am AEST), according to witnesses and state media reports. 
  
 So far Chinese authorities have confirmed 50 deaths, including at least 12 firefighters, and say 701 people have been admitted to hospital, of whom 71 have “severe” injuries. Those numbers are expected to rise. 
  
 “It was like the catastrophic scene in Hollywood movies,” one witness was quoted as saying by Xinhua, China’s official news agency. 
  
 Chen Bingzhi, who lives about 4km from the explosion site, told the Guardian: “It felt like a earthquake. The whole building was shaking. I live on the fifth floor and all the windows are broken.” 
  
 Firefighters described hellish scenes near the disaster site. “It’s all black and smog, I can’t see anything inside,” one told Xinhua. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Dense smoke rises from the fire caused by blasts in a warehouse at the Binhai New Area in Tianjin, China Photograph: Imaginechina/Corbis 
  
 The blasts – so violent they sent vehicles and debris flying into the air and rattled homes for miles around – were caused by a shipment of “dangerous chemicals”, state media reported. 
  
 As dawn broke over Tianjin, which is a major base for China’s petrochemical and shipping industries, the extent of the destruction became clear. 
  
 Drone footage showed fires raging inside the disaster zone and giant plumes of black smoke bellowing into the air. 
  
 Photographs of the destruction appeared to have been taken straight from a warzone, not a bustling port city just 160km from Beijing. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest China blasts aftermath: Drone footage shows devastation in Tianjin. Link to video 
  
 They showed firefighters picking their way past crumpled and charred vehicles; terrified residents camped out on the streets; tower blocks with their windows blown out by the strength of the blast. 
  
 One image showed a group of rescue workers crowded around what appeared to be the corpse of a victim, splayed out on a ladder. Another photograph posted on Chinese social media appeared to show a metal car wheel that had been partially melted by the inferno. 
  
 Relatives of victims and the missing flocked to local hospitals where doctors described being overwhelmed by the walking wounded. 
  
 “The hospital cannot count how many patients we have received – there are too many of them and many of them have burn injuries,” said a doctor at one of the city’s hospital, who had been called back from a conference in Beijing to treat the wounded. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Smoke rises amid mangled wreckage at the site of a series of explosions in Tianjin. Photograph: STR/AFP/Getty Images 
  
 Lu Yun, the director of one hospital, told Xinhua his doctors had treated at least 150 people who had been injured by glass or stones. Some were in a serious condition, he said. 
  
 At Tianjin’s Teda hospital, just a few blocks from the disaster scene, an outdoor field hospital was set up to cope with the influx of patients. Black smoke could still be seen rising into the sky and scores of volunteers were on hand outside with deliveries of stacks of bottled water. 
  
 Residents of buildings between the hospital and the blast site could be seen outside their homes carrying packed bags. 
  
 Nearby, virtually all of the north-facing windows on the 30-storey Vantone Central Park compound had been smashed. Shards of glass littered the ground outside the apartments. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Smoke billows behind rows of burnt out cars at the site of a series of explosions in Tianjin, northern China. Photograph: Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images 
  
 A police officer ordered the Guardian to leave the hospital grounds. 
  
 Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, “urged all-out efforts to save the injured and minimize casualties”. Li Keqiang, the prime minister, gave orders for authorities “to intensify search and rescue”. 
  
  
  
 After initial reports of a fire in Tianjin’s Binhai district, the city’s fire department dispatched 12 teams to the scene at around 10.50pm on Wednesday. 
  
 Forty minutes later, at 11.30pm, explosions tore through the area. Nine more teams of firefighters were sent to the area to battle the blaze and locate their colleagues. 
  
 Hu Xiaoliang, a 32-year-old truck driver, said he had been napping under his vehicle at the time of the explosions. The force of the blast “catapulted” him away from beneath the truck, he claimed. 
  
 “I was sleeping under my truck when the first blast occurred. It literally threw me out of the trunk. The second blast was bigger, flames came and now my truck is all ashes.” 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest CCTV shows moment of explosion in Tianjin 
  
 The biggest blasts, which took place within 30 seconds of each other, were so powerful they registered at a nearby earthquake monitoring centre. 
  
 The first blast was equal in strength to the detonation of three tons of TNT, while the second was the equivalent of 21 tons of the explosive, said the China Earthquake Networks Centre. 
  
 On Thursday, as fire teams struggled to bring the fire under control details emerged of Ruihai logistics, the company that owned the warehouse at the centre of the disaster. 
  
 Xinhua said the company, founded in 2011, was involved in the “storage, transfer, distribution and customs declaration of dangerous chemicals”. 
  
 “Executives of the company have been controlled,” Xinhua said, suggesting its owners had been detained by police. 
  
 The government has not yet commented on what caused the blast, but if it is a safety lapse in the handling of dangerous shipments, it would be the latest in a long line of grim accidents. 
  
 Poor safety standards and widespread corruption contribute to hundreds of deaths in China’s poorly regulated private mines each year, and in other industrial accidents. 
  
 An explosion at a fireworks warehouse in July killed 15 people, and last year dozens died in a blast at a car parts factory in Shanghai. 
  
 Additional reporting by Luna Lin 
  
 Comments are open on our live blog here. ||||| TIANJIN, China (AP) — Huge explosions in a warehouse district sent up massive fireballs that turned the night sky into day, killing at least 44 people and injuring hundreds in the Chinese port city of Tianjin, officials and witnesses said Thursday. 
  
 In this photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency, smoke rise from the site of explosions from a nearby building in the Binhai New Area in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug.... (Associated Press) 
  
 Evacuees line up for donated clothing at a temporary shelter at a primary school following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported... (Associated Press) 
  
 Evacuees gather at a temporary shelter on the grounds of a primary school following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge... (Associated Press) 
  
 Evacuees line up for donated clothing at a temporary shelter at a primary school following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured person is unloaded from the back of an ambulance following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured person is brought into a hospital following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at the Tianjin port... (Associated Press) 
  
 A hospital worker and a resident push what appears to be a lifeless body into a hospital in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions... (Associated Press) 
  
 A man crying about the death of his son collapses outside a hospital receiving victims of explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported... (Associated Press) 
  
 Security guards and a resident push what appears to be a lifeless body into a hospital in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Huge explosions sparked overnight at a warehouse... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured man walks out of a hospital catering to victims of an explosion in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Huge explosions sparked overnight at a warehouse for dangerous... (Associated Press) 
  
 A man gathers burnt metal pieces that residents say flew from the nearby explosion, in the northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Huge explosions sparked overnight at a warehouse... (Associated Press) 
  
 A man takes a photo near a burnt drum that residents said flew from a nearby explosion seen in the background in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Huge explosions sparked... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured woman is treated inside a hospital following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at the Tianjin port... (Associated Press) 
  
 In this photo released by Xinhua News Agency smoke and fire erupt into the night sky after an explosion in the Binhai New Area in north China's Tianjin Municipality on Thursday Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured person is brought into a hospital following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at the Tianjin port... (Associated Press) 
  
 An injured firefighter grimaces as he is examined in a hospital following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions... (Associated Press) 
  
 People walk on a street as they evacuate their residences following explosions in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at the... (Associated Press) 
  
 In this photo released by Xinhua News Agency smoke and fire rises after an explosion in the Binhai New Area in north China's Tianjin Municipality on Thursday Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported... (Associated Press) 
  
 A man wears a mask as he visits an area damaged by an explosion in northeastern China's Tianjin municipality, Thursday, Aug. 13, 2015. Chinese state media reported huge explosions at the Tianjin port... (Associated Press) 
  
 Twelve of the dead were from among the more than 1,000 firefighters sent to fight the blaze set off by the explosions shortly before midnight, the Tianjin municipal government said. It said 520 people were being treated in hospitals, 66 of them with serious injuries. It gave no figure for the missing. 
  
 The blasts, originating at a warehouse for hazardous material, turned buildings in the immediate vicinity into charred, skeletal shells while shattering windows up to several kilometers (miles) away. 
  
 "I thought it was an earthquake, so I rushed downstairs without my shoes on," said Tianjin resident Zhang Siyu, whose home is several kilometers from the blast site. "Only once I was outside did I realize it was an explosion. There was the huge fireball in the sky with thick clouds. Everybody could see it." 
  
 Zhang said she could see wounded people weeping. She said she did not see anyone who had been killed, but "I could feel death." 
  
 There was no indication of what caused the blasts, and no immediate sign of any large release of toxic chemicals into the air. Beijing News said there was some unidentified yellow foam on the ground at the site, although it was not clear if this was contamination or part of the fire-fighting efforts. 
  
 The ensuing fire was mostly under control by morning, and the Tianjin local government said further firefighting was suspended on orders of the central government so that a team of chemical experts can assess hazardous materials on site, dangers to the environment and how best to proceed with putting out the rest of the fire. 
  
 "It was like what we were told a nuclear bomb would be like," said truck driver Zhao Zhencheng, who spent the night in the cab of his truck after the blasts. "I've never even thought I'd see such a thing. It was terrifying, but also beautiful." 
  
 Police in Tianjin said an initial blast took place at shipping containers in a warehouse for hazardous materials owned by Ruihai Logistics, a company that says it is properly approved to handle such materials. State media said senior management of the company had been detained by authorities, and that President Xi Jinping has demanded severe punishment for anyone found responsible for the explosions. 
  
 The initial blast apparently triggered at least one further blast. The National Earthquake Bureau reported two major blasts before midnight, the first with an equivalent of 3 tons of TNT, and the second with the equivalent of 21 tons. 
  
 The explosions took place in a mostly industrial economic development zone, with some apartment buildings in the vicinity. Buildings of a half-dozen other logistics companies were destroyed in the blasts, and more than 1,000 new cars were left charred in a nearby parking lot, the Beijing News said. 
  
 As is customary during disasters, Chinese authorities tried to keep a tight control over information. Police kept journalists and bystanders away with a cordon about 1 or 2 kilometers (about a mile) from the site. On China's popular microblogging platform of Weibo, some users complained that their posts about the blasts were deleted, and the number of searchable posts on the disaster fluctuated, in a sign that authorities were manipulating or placing limits on the number of posts. 
  
 The website of the logistics company became inaccessible Thursday. 
  
 The Tianjin government said that because of the blasts it had suspended online access to public corporate records. These records might be used to trace the ownership of Ruihai. It was not clear whether the blackout was due to technical damage related to the explosion. No one answered the phone at the Tianjin Market and Quality Supervision Administration or the Tianjin Administration for Industry and Commerce Thursday. 
  
 Ruihai Logistics said on its website — before it was shut down — that it was established in 2011 and is an approved company for handling hazardous materials. It said it handles 1 million tons of cargo annually. 
  
 Photos taken by bystanders and circulating on microblogs show a gigantic fireball high in the sky, with a mushroom-cloud. Other photos on state media outlets showed a sea of fire that painted the night sky bright orange, with tall plumes of smoke. 
  
 About 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from the explosion site is the luxury Fifth Avenue apartment complex on a road strewn with broken glass and pieces of charred metal thrown from explosion. Like surrounding buildings, the Mediterranean style complex had all its windows blown out, and some of its surfaces were scorched. 
  
 "It's lucky no one had moved in," said a worker on the site, Liu Junwei, 29. "But for us it's a total loss. Two years of hard work down the drain." 
  
 "It had been all quiet, then the sky just lit up brighter than day and it looked like a fireworks show," said another worker on the site who gave just his surname, Li. 
  
 Tianjin, with a population of about 15 million, is about 120 kilometers (75 miles) east of Beijing on the Bohai Sea and is one of the country's major ports. It is one of China's more modern cities and is connected to the capital by a high speed rail line. 
  
 __ 
  
 Associated Press writers Ian Mader and Didi Tang in Beijing and Erika Kinetz in Shanghai contributed. ||||| A CNN reporter was blocked by unidentified men from reporting live on the Tianjin explosion outside a hospital on Thursday morning. 
  
 At around noon, state-run Xinhua news agency reported that 44 people had been killed, including 12 firefighters. 520 others have been sent to hospital for injuries resulting from the massive explosion, with 66 in critical condition. 
  
 The CNN correspondent, Will Ripley, was speaking outside a hospital when he was confronted by several men, demanding him to end the live broadcast. Several men were heard shouting “stop recording” at the CNN crew. Ripley was seen saying “OK” multiple times before the live feed was interrupted. 
  
 HKFP_LIVE: Tune in for rolling updates on the Tianjin explosion 
  
 The CNN anchor later commented from the studio that this is a usual case of reporting in the country, adding, “This is something that has happened many times over the years in any number of stories in China.” 
  
 Local journalists in China also complained that they were blocked from reporting on the blast, Tencent news reported. A reporter who took photos inside a Tianjin hospital was threatened by security guards to delete the images. 
  
 The massive Tianjin explosion has made headlines across the world. International media, including CNN, BBC, RT News and Rai News, covered the incident on their front pages. 
  
 However, Sina News reported that Tianjin Television was broadcasting a Korean drama at 8am on Wednesday morning—eight hours after the incident unfolded. 
  
 A post also surfaced on Weibo, China’s microblogging site, that reporters working for Tianjin Television were ready to begin reporting on the blast. However, they were still waiting for permission to start the broadcast. The post quoted reporters on the scene saying that some crew had hoped to start the live report before noon. 
  
 Chinese media said the explosion occurred at a warehouse operated by the Ruihai International Logistics Company in Tianjin city. Police detained the person in charge of the enterprise. 
  
 On Thursday morning, the Chinese leaders ordered officers in the city to “make full effort in rescuing the injured, and search for those missing,” according to The Paper. Xi Jinping, the country’s president, also said police should investigate the cause of the incident and punish those responsible for the blast. 
  
 Update from CNN: 
  
 Correction: CNN Correspondent interrupted in a live report by upset friends and relatives of victims killed and injured in the China blasts. — CNN (@CNN) August 13, 2015 
  
 Additional reporting by Vivienne Zeng and Ryan Kilpatrick ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Drone footage showed the devastation caused by the explosions 
  
 The massive explosions in China's northern city of Tianjin are now known to have killed at least 50 people. 
  
 More than 700 have been injured and hospitals are struggling to cope with the number of casualties. 
  
 The blasts, at a warehouse storing toxic chemicals, destroyed tower blocks and burned out thousands of cars. The fireball could be seen from space. 
  
 Twelve firefighters are among those who lost their lives; 36 of their colleagues are still missing. 
  
 Tianjin is one of China's most important industrial centres, and one of the busiest ports in the world. 
  
 President Xi Jinping has promised a thorough investigation into what happened and "transparent information disclosure to the public," Xinhua news agency reports. 
  
 What we know about explosions 
  
 Tianjin in profile 
  
 'Seismic scale' of blasts 
  
 Travelling into the blast zone 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Firefighters at the scene were clad in protective gear 
  
 The first explosion occurred at about 23:30 local time (15:30 GMT) on Wednesday in Tianjin's Binhai New Area, a vast industrial zone which houses car factories, aircraft assembly lines and other manufacturing and research firms. 
  
 The blast was followed seconds later by another, more powerful blast, and a series of smaller explosions. 
  
 Broken and buckled shipping containers litter the site and vast areas of the port have been devastated. 
  
 Buildings within a 2km radius (1.5 miles) had windows blown out and office blocks were destroyed. 
  
 The impact of the blasts could be felt several kilometres away, and was detected by a US Geological Survey monitoring unit in Beijing 160km (100 miles) away. 
  
 Blast 'like end of the world' 
  
 Pictures reveal devastation 
  
 Netizens' critical of blast coverage silenced 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption The explosions left thousands of cars at the port burned out 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Buildings within a large radius were destroyed 
  
 State media reported that firefighters arrived at the port at 23:06 local time (15:06 GMT) as containers were on fire; another batch of firefighters arrived at around 23:16, 14 minutes before the first explosion. 
  
 Reports in Chinese media said the blasts happened after a shipment of explosives detonated in a warehouse owned by Ruihai Logistics, a company that specialises in handling dangerous and toxic chemicals. 
  
 State broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) said at least one person from the "relevant company" had been detained for questioning. 
  
 The warehouse was designed to store chemicals including sodium cyanide, butanone and toluene diisocyanate, as well as compressed natural gas and other flammable substances. 
  
 The head of Tianjin's environmental protection bureau, Wen Wurui, said pollution levels were being monitored. 
  
 "It would be harmful if you breathe in [this toxic air] for a long time," he said. 
  
 "But at present, it has not exceeded [the standard] too much based on our monitoring." 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's John Sudworth reports from inside the blast zone on Thursday 
  
 The BBC's John Sudworth, in Tianjin, said thick, acrid smoke can be seen still billowing from the site, and the burning taste hangs heavy in the air. 
  
 "I heard the first explosion and everyone went outside, then there was a series of more explosions, windows shattered and a lot of people who were inside were hurt and came running out, bleeding," 27-year-old Huang Shiting, who lives close to the site, told AFP. 
  
 Injured 10-year-old Mei Xiaoya told AFP that she and her mother were turned away from the first hospital they went to, seeking treatment, as it was full. 
  
 "I'm not afraid, it's just a scratch," she said, "but mum was hurt badly, she couldn't open her eyes." 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hundreds of people were injured in the blasts on Wednesday night 
  
 The blast ripped apart a nearby dormitory for migrant workers, who were forced to flee the collapsing building. 
  
 "I rolled off the bed after the first shockwave hit, so I scrambled to run for my life," said resident Dan Agio. 
  
 "When I reached downstairs the second blast happened. It's as if the sky collapsed. In a blink of an eye, the roof fell." 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Explosions survivor "The second blast blew me away" 
  
 The editor of the BBC's Chinese Service, Raymond Li, points out that almost 24 hours after the explosions the cause still is not known. 
  
 Just a few days ago city officials visited the industrial site to discuss safety standards, he says. 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Firefighters are among the dead and injured 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption The fire service was already at the scene at the time of the explosions, reports say |||||