Leonard Bullock's home before (left), and after it was painted. 
  
 A 75-year-old Oregon man has a fresh coat of paint on his house and new porch furniture after mean comments from a pair of passing teens inspired a good Samaritan to take action.Josh Cyganik, 35, is a track inspector for Union Pacific in Pendleton, Oregon. Up until a few weeks ago he only knew Leonard Bullock as the friendly man that was always sitting on his porch across the street from the rail yard."In the morning when I get here, he's there, waves, when I go home, waves bye," Cygnik told ABC. "I just waved to him, knew he was a nice guy."But last month, Cygnik heard two teens commenting about the state of Bullock's home and how they thought it should be burned and torn down."The look on Leonard's face said it all to me," Cygnik said. "I went home and thought about it and it was just bothering me, eating me up and I knew I had to do something."So Cygnik found a local lumber and paint store to donate materials and posted a plea to Facebook looking for volunteers to help spruce up Bullock's home.At first, Cygnik expected it to just be a few other railroad workers helping him out, but his plan went viral. His Facebook post was shared thousands of times and on Saturday July 18, over 100 people showed up to help.They gave Bullock's house a fresh coat of paint, transforming it from white and turquoise to beige. Some of the volunteers went out and purchased new furniture for the porch so Bullock could continue his hobby of sitting outside and watching the neighborhood in comfort.In addition to those working on the house, throughout the day, strangers would stop by with food and beverages. By the end of the day, there was so much food left over, they donated it to the local Salvation Army outpost."It was just overwhelming how people would come together to lend a hand to do something for Leonard; it's still hard for me to wrap my head around it," Cygnik said.Cygnik said he never had to think twice about what he did for Bullock, it was simply how he was raised."Just respect for others, respect your elders," he said.Cygnik says Bullock still waves to him every day."Day in and day out he's still there and he grins ear to ear." ||||| Track Inspector's Good Deed Goes Viral 
  
 Josh Cyganik has waved to 75-year-old Leonard Bullock every morning for the past four years. 
  
 Bullock's house sits across the street from a portion of the Union Pacific main line in Pendleton, Oregon, where Cyganik meets his co-workers every day to begin his work maintaining tracks across UP's western region. "He sits on that front porch all day long," Cyganik said. "I never talked to him. Not until I heard what those two kids said." 
  
 It was a sunny day in July when Josh overheard two teenagers comment that the house should be burned down because it was in such bad shape. "I saw the look on Leonard's face. I could tell the comment bothered him," Cyganik said. "I don't think any elderly person should have to endure what I heard from those two kids' mouths. I kind of stewed about it for a couple days before I decided to do something." 
  
 Leonard Bullock’s home before it was painted. 
  
 Determined to right the situation, Cyganik asked a few fellow railroaders to help out. He also asked his friend, Brian Christensen, manager of Tum-a-Lum lumber, if he could donate some paint. "Brian was more than happy to donate supplies. After we had it all figured out, I went and asked Leonard if it would be all right if we painted his house," Cyganik said. "He was ecstatic." 
  
 Worried he wouldn't have enough helping hands with only a week's notice, Cyganik posted his story on Facebook with a plea to friends and family to support his effort. "My Facebook is private," Cyganik said, "but the post blew up like wildfire." The post was shared more than 6,000 times. 
  
 Volunteers work to paint Leonard Bullock’s home. 
  
 When Cyganik arrived at 8 a.m. on Saturday, July 18, about 20 volunteers already had shown up. Throughout the day strangers kept arriving to help, and by the end of the day more than 100 people had stopped by to lend a hand, including several Union Pacific employees. 
  
 "It was just a good vibe! Everybody was happy and excited," Cyganik said. "We received a lot of additional donations from people who didn't come but wanted to help. People were dropping off food and drinks all day long. Starbucks even donated six gallons of water and iced tea." 
  
 A Matter of Respect 
  
 The formerly white, blue and turquoise house now is a uniform warm beige, and thanks to more help from Tum-a-Lum Lumber, construction of a new porch is underway. Additional volunteers have purchased new outdoor furniture, and Cyganik and crew are looking for a roofer willing to donate time to complete the project. 
  
 The Bullocks’ home now has a fresh coat of primer and paint. 
  
 "Yeah, it was a random act of kindness, but to me it's more about respect," Cyganik said. "I was raised to respect the people who came before you, to help others out who don't have much. Leonard can now sit on his front porch for the rest of his years while feeling good about his home." 
  
 Cyganik maintains that what he did was not a big deal. "According to the media, I'm a hero. I'm not a hero; I just heard something that bothered me," Cyganik said. "Anyone would have done the same thing. Everyone has it in their heart to do things like this." 
  
 Throughout this process, Cyganik learned quite a bit about Leonard Bullock. Bullock is a retired forklift driver. He met his wife, Dorothy, at a church in Walla Walla, Washington. They married in 2000. Bullock retired in 1995, but even with his monthly stipend he and Dorothy didn't have the funds to fix up their house. "They're great people," Cyganik said. "You never know about someone unless you get to know their struggles. It means everything to me that so many people from across the country showed up to help and get to know Leonard and Dorothy." 
  
 After all the paint brushes were cleaned, the supplies stored away, and the volunteers had gone home, Cyganik was still getting texts at 10 p.m. "My buddy told me that Leonard and Dorothy were still sitting on their porch in the dark, just grinning from ear to ear." ||||| Every morning, Josh Cyganik gives Leonard Bullock a smile and a wave as he walks past the 75-year-old man's house on his way to work. 
  
 For four consecutive years, the 35-year-old track inspector for the Union Pacific Railroad has nodded to the Pendleton, Oregon, resident, who sits on his porch all day long, but not once has he ever said a word to the man. 
  
 Last month, he finally broke his silence. 
  
 As Cyganik stepped out to the curb to fill a garbage can, he overheard two teenage boys walking past Bullock's house yell, "Look at this crappy house. They just need to burn it down!" 
  
 As Cyganik glanced over, he saw Bullock with his head down. 
  
 "I couldn't believe what those kids had said," Cyganik told CBS News. "It was Leonard, this elderly, old man, who never hurt anybody a day in his life -- sits there all day long." 
  
 Later that day, Cyganik went home and stewed about the boys' rude comment. 
  
 After a couple days of thinking, he decided to do something about it. 
  
 He called a friend who runs a lumber and paint store, asking him if he'd be willing to donate materials to fix up the stranger's house. His friend agreed; "anything you need," he said. 
  
 Once Cyganik knew he had enough materials, he moved on to the next item on his check list: workers. 
  
 He posted a Facebook status, explaining his call for help. 
  
 To his surprise, more than 6,000 people shared the post and dozens commented. 
  
 With a little bit of faith, Cyganik knocked on Bullock's door the next day and asked him if he would like his house repainted. 
  
 "He was just flabbergasted," Cyganik said. "He was excited and he said he would love that!" 
  
 The following Saturday, Cyganik and his five coworkers headed over to work on Bullock's house, unsure how many people would join them. 
  
 One by one, people started coming. In fact, the number exceeded Cyganik's expectations so much, he stopped counting at 95 people. 
  
 Facebook/Josh Cyganik 
  
 "It was amazing. That's the only word I can say," Cyganik said proudly. "I had no plan. I had no guidance. The way it all fell together -- the way it turned out." 
  
 It took nine hours to finish the job, but they did it. 
  
 Bullock can now sit proudly outside of his freshly painted house and call it "home." Even better, he can now call Cyganik not a "stranger," but a "friend." |||||