Using an obscure law, written in 1789 — the All Writs Act — the US government has ordered Apple to ||||| Anti-virus founder John McAfee, who is wanted for questioning by the police is offering a BZE$25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person(s) responsible for the murder of US National Gregory Faull. According to NBC Dateline correspondent Keith Morrison, who is currently on Ambergris Caye, McAfee called him this morning (Sunday, November 18th) and during the telephone interview McAfee not only offered the reward but claimed that he is at his home here on the island, and not in hiding. 
  
 In an interview today with The San Pedro Sun, Morrison said, “One of the claims he [McAfee] is making, and I challenged him on a good many of those claims, is that he does not have any intention of giving himself up, not now not ever.” Morrison reiterated that McAfee continues to have no faith in the Belize Police Department, even when he is being offered to turn himself in with his attorney and television cameras. “He is fixated on the notion that the police and the political establishment of the police are unbelievably corrupted and there is nothing he can do except stay in hiding,” said Morrison. 
  
 Morrison told The SP Sun that McAfee also offered a reward to anyone who has information that can lead to an arrest of Gregory Faull murder or murders. “He is offering a $25,000 Belize reward for information that will lead to the arrest, capture and conviction for the person(s) responsible for the murder of Gregory,” said Morrison. 
  
 McAfee has been in hiding since, Sunday November 11th when the body of his neighbor, Gregory Faull was discovered in his two story home some six miles north of San Pedro on Ambergris Caye. Faull’s body was found on the same day. The police are looking for John McAfee, as a “person of interest” in the investigation but maintain that he is only wanted for questioning. McAfee has managed to avoid all police officials but has spoken with The San Pedro Sun, international press and online media. 
  
 McAfee told Morrison he is aware of who is visiting his property, claiming that he is at his beach side property on northern Ambergris Caye and can watch the activities around his property. 
  
 Follow The San Pedro Sun News on Twitter, become a fan on Facebook. Stay updated via RSS |||||