PARIS (AP) — Scores of police patrolled a small town west of the French capital on Thursday night after a tiger eluded a massive search and remained on the prowl in the region near Disneyland Paris. 
  
 (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
  
 This photo provided by the town council of Montebrain, east of Paris, Thursday, Nov.13, 2014 shows what is described as a tiger. French authorities say a young tiger is on the loose near Disneyland Paris,... (Associated Press) 
  
 The paw print of what is described as a tiger by a member of the police animal brigade is pictured in Montevrain, east of Paris, Thursday, Nov.13, 2014. French authorities say a young tiger is on the... (Associated Press) 
  
 This photo provided by the town council of Montebrain, east of Paris, Thursday, Nov.13, 2014 shows what is described as a tiger. French authorities say a young tiger is on the loose near Disneyland Paris,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Members of the police animal brigade walk through the streets of Montevrain, east of Paris, Thursday, Nov. 13, 2014. French authorities say a young tiger is on the loose near Disneyland Paris, one of... (Associated Press) 
  
 Members of the police animal brigade walk through the streets of Montevrain, east of Paris, Thursday Nov. 13, 2014. French authorities say a young tiger is on the loose near Disneyland Paris, one of Europe's... (Associated Press) 
  
 Members of the police animal brigade walk through the streets of Montevrain, east of Paris, Thursday Nov. 13, 2014. French authorities say a young tiger is on the loose near Disneyland Paris, one of Europe's... (Associated Press) 
  
 The small beast was spotted Thursday morning near a parking lot in Montevrain by a woman who snapped a photo of it. 
  
 Still on the loose by nightfall, some began to doubt whether it really was a tiger. 
  
 The Parc des Felins, a wild cat animal park 29 kilometers (18 miles) from Montevrain, said none of its cats are missing. 
  
 EuroDisney, the operator of Disneyland Paris, a top tourist destination in Europe, went out of its way to say the theme park has no tigers. 
  
 But authorities remained on alert. 
  
 Montevrain said 100 police would patrol the town of less than 10,000 overnight and the search for the animal would begin anew Friday. However, a helicopter with infrared equipment was to continue combing the area overnight, according to Cedric Tartaud, top aide to the mayor. 
  
 "We ask you for the greatest prudence," Montevrain told its residents on the town's Facebook page. 
  
 Entrances to the town's schools also were being guarded ahead of Friday classes. 
  
 Nearly 200 police, gendarmes, rescuers with tranquilizing guns and a specially trained dog searched the area Thursday. Authorities urged people in Montevrain, nearby Chessy and Chalifert to stay indoors, and children were escorted home from school. 
  
 The animal was spotted about 8:30 a.m. by the wife of supermarket manager Jean-Baptiste Berdeaux, who told BFM-TV she initially thought it was a lynx. She snapped the photo of it standing on a ridge above a parking lot. 
  
 An examination of a muddy footprint showed it was a tiger weighing about 70 kilograms (154 pounds) and about 1 ½ years old, said Clement Joly, a Montevrain spokesman. 
  
 But at nightfall, top officials were no longer using the word "tiger." 
  
 "All forces are mobilized to capture this animal," Montevrain Mayor Christiani t Robache told reporters on BFM-TV. 
  
 The under-prefect for the Seine-et-Marne region, Frederic MacKain, said the fuzzy photo "leads us to believe it's the silhouette of a feline." 
  
 The wooded region dotted with small towns provides abundant cover for any wild animal to hide. 
  
 Montevrain sent out a news alert on its Facebook page Thursday, saying a young tiger was spotted in the brush behind tennis courts and a soccer field about 9 kilometers (5 1/2 miles) from Disneyland Paris. 
  
 However, officials at the theme park, which calls itself Europe's No. 1 tourist destination, said no special precautions were taken Thursday inside the park because the loose animal wasn't deemed a threat. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Greg Keller in Paris contributed to this report. ||||| Policiers, pompiers et personnels spécialisés n'ont pas ménagé leurs efforts pour tenter de trouver le tigre aperçu à Montévrain, en Seine-et-Marne. Mais malgré la présence des experts du parc des Félins de Nesles, le félin était toujours dans la nature jeudi soir. Les recherches vont être suspendues pour la nuit. «L'hélicoptère équipé d'une caméra thermique continuera, lui, de tourner jusqu'au lever du jour», a néanmoins précisé une source préfectorale.Selon leurs analyses et les traces de pas retrouvées sur place, il s'agirait bien d'un tigre «adolescent» dont le poids est estimé à une centaine de kilos. Il a été aperçu pour la dernière fois à 15 heures. Une battue a été lancée peu après 16 heures mais celle-ci n'a rien donné. Les forces de l'ordre se demandaient d'ailleurs si l'animal ne se serait pas échappé du périmètre.Des battues ont été organisées dans un bois proche du premier site. «Depuis ce matin, on court après, des policiers essaient de l'intercepter», expliquait jeudi après-midi une source policière. Des pompiers munis d'armes paralysantes, ainsi qu'un hélicoptère, ont également été mobilisés. 30 militaires de la gendarmerie ont été ajoutés au dispositif initial pour l'organisation des battues. Au total, près de 200 agents ont pris part à la traque.La préfecture demande «aux habitants proches du site de rester à l'intérieur de leur domicile» et de privilégier les trajets en véhicule». «Pour les sorties d'école, il est vivement recommandé aux parents ou personnes venant chercher les enfants de les récupérer en voiture et d'éviter tout déplacement à pied», précise la préfecture. Les autorités espèrent capturer vivant l'animal, qui est une espèce protégée. «Dans la mesure du possible, on essaie de l'endormir. S'il se montre dangereux ou agressif, l'ordre sera donné de l'abattre», a précisé la préfecture.Christian Robache (UMP), maire de Montévrain, a demandé au personnel municipal de faire du porte-à-porte pour demander aux citoyens de ne pas sortir de chez eux. Ils ont également utilisé les réseaux sociaux de la mairie. Les sorties d'écoles sont sécurisées.Peu avant 14 heures, un lieutenant de louveterie équipé de seringues hypodermiques était arrivé dans la zone de recherches, tandis que l'hélicoptère effectuait des passages en rase-motte. L'appareil faisait sonner des sirènes dans le but de faire sortir l'animal de sa cachette pour faciliter sa localisation et donc sa capture.Le fauve en liberté avait été aperçu une première fois à 8h30 par la femme du gérant d'un supermarché de Montévrain, qui a ensuite alerté les autorités. «C'est mon épouse qui l'a vu ce matin, sur le parking de l'Intermarché», a relaté ce commerçant. «Elle n'est pas sortie de la voiture et m'a appelé pour me dire "je crois que j'ai vu un lynx"», a-t-il ajouté.On ne sait pas encore d'où vient le félin. L'hypothèse d'une évasion de la ménagerie du cirque qui était présent à Montévrain jusqu'à samedi dernier est a priori à écarter, selon la mairie. «Le cirque est parti depuis samedi et lors du contrôle sanitaire qui a précédé les représentations, les gendarmes n'ont pas constaté la présence d'un tigre», précise le cabinet du maire. Le Parc des Félins, à Nesles, à une trentaine de kilomètres de Montévrain, a également été interrogé, mais aucune perte d'animal n'avait été rapportée à 13 heures, selon à la préfecture.Une photo amateur du tigre aperçu ce matin (DR) ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Cedric Tartaud, Montevrain mayor's office: "If it's a young tiger, maybe approximately 70kg… maybe it's afraid" - photo courtesy Julie Berdeaux 
  
 Police, fire officials and a specially-trained hunting dog are searching for a big cat - believed to be a tiger - seen in a town outside Paris. 
  
 A woman alerted officials after spotting the animal in a supermarket car park in Montevrain, east of the French capital. 
  
 Officers armed with tranquiliser guns have been combing countryside outside the town, helped by a helicopter. 
  
 Residents of Montevrain and two other towns have been told to stay indoors. 
  
 As darkness fell, the Montevrain council said on its Facebook page that the search had been called off for the night but local schools would be secured by 08:00 on Friday. 
  
 During the day, children were kept in schools and collected by their parents by car. 
  
 It was unclear where the animal came from, though there is a big cat park near Montevrain. 
  
 The owner of the lntermarche supermarket in Montevrain said his wife had spotted the animal at about 08:30 (07:30 GMT). 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Police with tranquiliser guns have been searching a wood in Montevrain 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption The police have called in animal experts to try to track down the big cat 
  
 Image copyright AFP Image caption Armed police are on the streets of Montevrain as the search continues 
  
 "She didn't get out of the car and called me to say 'I think I saw a lynx'," he was quoted as saying. The woman took a photograph that appears to show a large cat. 
  
 The helicopter was equipped with a thermal detector to try to spot the animal in the undergrowth. 
  
 A wolf catcher with a specially trained dog was also part of the search team, authorities in Montevrain and Seine-et-Marne said. 
  
 Le Parisien newspaper said several local residents had sighted the animal. 
  
 Specialists said the animal's tracks were those of a young tiger. An official from the mayor's office said they had been able to trace the animal to the woodland by following its prints. 
  
 The Montevrain mayor's office dismissed the idea that the tiger could have escaped from a circus that was in the town until Saturday, Le Parisien reported. 
  
 EuroDisney, which operates nearby Disneyland Paris, said it kept no tigers. |||||