She did it – and this time, that’s a good thing. 
  
 Lindsay Lohan worked like crazy and completed 115 hours of community service in Brooklyn to meet her Thursday deadline and avoid jail, a source confirmed to the Daily News. 
  
 “She finished last night or today,” the well-placed source said Wednesday. 
  
 And while the prosecutor on her case contested a prior batch of hours served overseas in London, Santa Monica City Attorney Terry White said Wednesday that he plans to accept the new Brooklyn hours when they’re presented at a Los Angeles hearing Thursday morning. 
  
 “It does appear that Ms. Lohan has completed her community service hours, and at this point I am not anticipating any sort of challenge to the hours,” White told The News Wednesday. 
  
 MORE: LINDSAY LOHAN MAY FLEE TO MONACO TO AVOID JAIL TIME IF COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS AREN'T COMPLETED BY DEADLINE: REPORT 
  
 It was three weeks ago on May 7 that a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge said Lohan could race to Brooklyn from her new home in London and try to complete 115 hours of service with the charity group Brooklyn Community Services (BCS) by a May 28 deadline. 
  
 He warned that the deadline was firm, and jail was on the table. 
  
 Lindsay Lohan serving her community service hours. (Melissa Russo/NBC 4 New York) 
  
 “She’s had three years to take care of this. If it’s not done by May 28, there will be consequences,” Judge Mark A. Young said. 
  
 MORE: LINDSAY LOHAN MISSES FIRST DAY OF COMMUNITY SERVICE STINT AT BROOKLYN PRESCHOOL 
  
 Lohan, 28, got off to a rocky start, missing her first day at BCS’s Duffield Children’s Center in Fort Greene on May 12. But she started the next morning and powered through back-to-back full-day shifts at the daycare center, a women’s shelter in East New York and possibly other BCS groups. 
  
 Her lawyer Shawn Holley is expected to appear on her behalf and submit the proof of service Thursday. 
  
 If the judge signs off, Lohan could wrap up her 2012 reckless driving case and be off probation for the first time since her conviction for back-to-back DUIs in 2007. 
  
 The “Mean Girls” actress originally was ordered to complete 240 hours of community service by last November to satisfy probation for her June 2012 car crash on the Pacific Coast Highway in Santa Monica. 
  
 She scored an extension when a judge agreed to give her more time as she acted in a London production of the David Mamet play “Speed the Plow" late last year. 
  
 Hard work pays off. Thank you to all those that allowed me to volunteer while in nyc. God bless you… https://t.co/tQtHIf9vzn — Lindsay Lohan (@lindsaylohan) May 27, 2015 
  
 Lohan later rushed to meet the extended deadline in January and thought she made the cut until prosecutors objected. 
  
 White questioned how Lohan was able to complete 10 hours on Jan. 19 considering she went to an emergency room that day for treatment of a mosquito-borne virus she purportedly picked up in Bora Bora. 
  
 “(A) note says she received acute care for three days, but on those three days, again, 10 hours were served,” he said with exasperation in late January. 
  
 “I’m having trouble not only with the quality of the work but whether or not the work was actually done,” he told the judge. 
  
 She agreed to serve 125 hours by May 28 to settle the dispute and had 115 to go as of her last hearing. 
  
 Lohan’s service with BCS appeared to go well with parents offering their support and the former child star keeping a low profile. 
  
 ndillon@nydailynews.com ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. |||||