Attempt saved. John Swift (Reading) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Offside, Fulham. Ryan Fredericks tries a through ball, but Chris Martin is caught offside.
Attempt missed. Paul McShane (Reading) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Liam Kelly with a cross following a corner.
Corner,  Reading. Conceded by Tomas Kalas.
Attempt blocked. John Swift (Reading) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Liam Kelly.
Attempt blocked. Garath McCleary (Reading) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by John Swift.
Goal!  Reading 1, Fulham 0. Roy Beerens (Reading) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal following a set piece situation.
Penalty saved! John Swift (Reading) fails to capitalise on this great opportunity,  right footed shot saved  in the bottom right corner.
Penalty conceded by Tim Ream (Fulham) after a foul in the penalty area.
Penalty Reading. Liam Moore draws a foul in the penalty area.
Garath McCleary (Reading) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Tim Ream (Fulham).
Second Half begins Reading 0, Fulham 0.
Substitution, Fulham. Lucas Piazon replaces Michael Madl.
First Half ends, Reading 0, Fulham 0.
Offside, Reading. Garath McCleary tries a through ball, but John Swift is caught offside.
Danny Williams (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Stefan Johansen (Fulham).
Liam Kelly (Reading) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Stefan Johansen (Fulham).
Corner,  Reading. Conceded by David Button.
Attempt missed. Roy Beerens (Reading) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Danny Williams.
Attempt missed. John Swift (Reading) header from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Roy Beerens with a cross.
Paul McShane (Reading) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Chris Martin (Fulham).
Attempt saved. Danny Williams (Reading) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by John Swift.
Attempt missed. Stefan Johansen (Fulham) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Attempt missed. Sone Aluko (Fulham) left footed shot from the left side of the box is too high. Assisted by Tom Cairney.
Paul McShane (Reading) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Paul McShane (Reading).
Tom Cairney (Fulham) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Chris Gunter (Reading).
Scott Malone (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Offside, Reading. John Swift tries a through ball, but Garath McCleary is caught offside.
Offside, Reading. Roy Beerens tries a through ball, but Garath McCleary is caught offside.
Attempt saved. John Swift (Reading) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Roy Beerens.
Attempt blocked. Tom Cairney (Fulham) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Stefan Johansen.
Foul by Garath McCleary (Reading).
Tim Ream (Fulham) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Reading. Conceded by Kevin McDonald.
Boss Jaap Stam has no new injury worries but may make changes after the Royals suffered back-to-back league defeats to drop to fifth in the table.
Fulham boss Slavisa Jokanovic has no new injury worries following Saturday's 1-1 draw at local rivals QPR.
Forwards Floyd Ayite and Neeskens Kebano are away on international duty at the Africa Cup of Nations.
The Whites travel to the Madejski Stadium six points behind Reading and five points off the play-off places.
The fixture has been rearranged after the original meeting on 30 December was abandoned because of fog at half-time, with the score 0-0.
Reading manager Jaap Stam told BBC Radio Berkshire:
"Sometimes you lose a couple of games in succession, that's football. But it's about the mentality in the team. Are you mentally strong to turn it around and start winning games again?
"Fulham have got a great team, play very good possession football as well and we know that and everyone else is aware of it.
"We need to make sure we play well and try and make it difficult for them.
"There's a lot of games coming up at the moment, but after a loss, it's good to play again quickly as you have a chance to redeem yourself."
Fulham goalkeeper David Button told BBC Radio London:
"The abandonment was a bit strange. It was lucky the game was level because otherwise I'm sure it would have been a bit controversial.
"We have to show Reading respect because they are ahead of us in the table. They play a similar passing style to us, so we are wary of them.
"We are hopeful we can get in the play-offs. They are in our way to achieving what we want. We want their play-off spot and are not afraid of talking about it."
BBC Radio Berkshire's Tim Dellor
Reading's meetings with Fulham over the last couple of years have never been dull.
Last year the two sides drew 2-2 at the Madejski Stadium. Reading's most recent trips to Craven Cottage have ended in heavy defeats. Expect goals. According to the BBC Weather forecast, we should also expect mist.
Reading go into the game having lost two consecutive Championship games for the first time since August.
Jaap Stam will want to avert any slide quickly. Defensively, Reading have looked particularly vulnerable lately.
Fulham have a play-off spot in their sights and will move to seventh with a win. The stats and the history point to this being a huge game in the context of both sides' seasons.