University of Michigan report suggests women who watch movies such as High Fidelity and Love Actually are more accepting of aggressive male behaviour 
  
 If you ever felt a little uncomfortable watching Andrew Lincoln’s cue-card delivered confession of devotion for Keira Knightley in Love Actually, or wondered whether it was appropriate for Ben Stiller to hire a private eye to track down his high school crush in There’s Something About Mary, it turns out science is on your side. A new study suggests romcoms that feature men engaging in stalker-like behaviour can make women more likely to tolerate obsessiveness from prospective romantic partners. 
  
 I Did It Because I Never Stopped Loving You, a report by the gender and sexuality expert Julia R Lippman, of the University of Michigan, examined women’s response to questions about aggressive romantic behaviour after watching a series of films with differing themes. Lippman found that women who watched films featuring persistent romantic pursuit, including There’s Something About Mary and Management, were more likely to accept so-called stalking myths than those who watched films depicting frightening male aggression – in this case Sleeping With the Enemy and Enough – or benign nature documentaries such as March of the Penguins and Winged Migration. 
  
 “After watching excerpts from one of these six films, participants completed a series of survey measures, including one that assessed their endorsement of stalking myths,” Lippman said. “Stalking myths are false or exaggerated beliefs about stalking that minimise its seriousness, which means that someone who more strongly endorses these tends to take stalking less seriously.” 
  
 Does Bollywood normalise stalking? Read more 
  
 Lippman said exposure to films that depicted persistent pursuit in a negative way made participants less likely to tolerate stalker-like males, while women who watched romcoms were more likely to accept such behaviour as normal. 
  
 “[Such movies] can encourage women to discount their instincts,” Lippman told Canada’s Global News. “This is a problem because research shows that instincts can serve as powerful cues to help keep us safe. 
  
 “At their core, all these films are trading in the ‘love conquers all’ myth,” she added. “Even though, of course, it doesn’t. Love is great, but so is respect for other people.” 
  
 Hollywood’s sympathetic depictions of stalker-like behaviour – as with John Cusack’s hounding of an ex-partner in High Fidelity, or even the Beast’s behaviour towards Belle in Disney animated musical Beauty and the Beast – has echoes in India, where films routinely show males in aggressive pursuit of their romantic targets. In January this year a 32-year-old Indian security guard escaped a jail term in Australia after his lawyer successfully argued his harassment of women with unwanted texts, messages and personal advances was a byproduct of his passion for Bollywood movies. ||||| MONTREAL – If there’s one thing many girls love, it’s romantic comedies. 
  
 Since day one (think Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast), girls have been taught that in order for a relationship to work out, they have to play hard-to-get, and it’s not worth it unless the boys are being persuasive enough to woo them (think Romeo throwing rocks at Juliet’s window). 
  
 But what does all that mean when we become adults and the relationships turn from cartoons and fairy tales to real life? 
  
 Julia R. Lippman’s latest study, I Did It Because I Never Stopped Loving You from the University of Michigan looks at the plot lines of romantic comedies. 
  
 She discovered many of the most popular rom-coms show men (or women) who have stalker-esque tendencies. 
  
 “I was inspired to pursue this research by observing that stalking often seems to be trivialized in our culture. We joke about ‘Facebook stalking’ crushes, for example,” Lippman told Global News. 
  
 “This led me to wonder if this cultural tendency to trivialize stalking might shape the beliefs people hold about stalking.” 
  
 She discovered that women who watch romantic comedies are more likely to tolerate some form of stalking in real life. 
  
 The female-only participants in the study were randomly assigned to watch a half-hour excerpt from one of six films. 
  
 Two of these films exemplified romantic persistent pursuit (There’s Something About Mary and Management). 
  
 Two others depicted scary persistent pursuit (Sleeping With The Enemy and Enough). 
  
 The last two were control films that did not depict persistent pursuit or relationships that could serve as a baseline for comparison (March of the Penguins and Winged Migration). 
  
 “After watching excerpts from one of these six films, participants completed a series of survey measures, including one that assessed their endorsement of ‘stalking myths,'” Lippman explained. 
  
 “Stalking myths are false or exaggerated beliefs about stalking that minimize its seriousness, which means that someone who more strongly endorses stalking myths tends to take stalking less seriously.” 
  
 Her paper concluded: “exposure to a film that depicted persistent pursuit as scary led participants to endorse fewer stalking-supportive beliefs,” while women who watched rom-coms were more likely to accept the behaviour as normal. 
  
 “It can encourage women to discount their instincts,” Lippman told Global News. 
  
 “This is a problem because research shows that instincts can serve as powerful cues to help keep us safe.” 
  
 So, how do we change the narrative? 
  
 Lippman observed that films, and romantic comedies in particular, can have great power on the way people view love and romance. 
  
 “At the core, all these films are trading in the ‘love conquers all’ myth. Even though, of course, it doesn’t,” said Lippman, adding that the rom-com film industry is unlikely to change, so it’s up to people to question what they’re watching. 
  
 “Love is great, but so is respect for other people. This is true even when people tell you things you don’t want to hear.” 
  
 What do you think? Are the main male characters in these films simply head-over-heels in love, or leaning a tad on the stalker side? 
  
 rachel.lau@globalnews.ca 
  
 Follow @rachel_lau ||||| Abstract 
  
 This experiment examines the effects of media portrayals of persistent pursuit on beliefs about stalking. Exposure to a film that depicted persistent pursuit as scary led participants to endorse fewer stalking-supportive beliefs. Although exposure to a film that depicted persistent pursuit as romantic did not lead to greater endorsement of stalking-supportive beliefs for all participants, it did have this effect among those higher in perceived realism or transportation. Possible mediators of the relation between media exposure and beliefs about stalking are also explored. Results indicate that media portrayals of gendered aggression can have prosocial effects, and that the romanticized pursuit behaviors commonly featured in the media as a part of normative courtship can lead to an increase in stalking-supportive beliefs. This latter finding may have implications for the legal support female stalking victims are able to access. |||||