As mentioned earlier, TMZ had been holding their tongue to report on the now widely circulated rumor that Brangelina were going to cause the earth's core to melt by separating. They've now weighed in, and the decision goes like this: 
  
 Brad Pitt and Angeline Jolie are not pulling the plug on their relationship, multiple people directly connected with the couple tell TMZ. There's a report out that Brad and Angie are calling it quits. One source — who should know — says, "It's B.S." It is now safe to step back from the ledge. 
  
 Perez Hilton and Just Jared have also gone with the PR deflection, but—as it bears repeating—when you're a publicist playing on the level of Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, you're going to do anything to put ice on a rumor while you work a press strategy to go about working it. Also, as Maura Johnston noted earlier today, TMZ totally screwed the pooch on that Axl Rose story they reported earlier. Also, they're far "better" at matters of dead celebrities (Michael Jackson, Brittney Murphy: two beats they've done early, spot-on reporting with) than anything else. So if one of them were reportedly dead, and TMZ reported it, I wouldn't question it nearly as much as this, which is something that's been buzzed about in the celebrity press particularly hard over the last few months. 
  
 The fact that I have any perspective to offer on this just struck me as, at the very least, sad. ||||| In recent years Broadway's stages have been littered with dim performances from bright screen stars, including Julia Roberts and Katie Holmes. Film actresses as famous as Ms. Johansson tend to create their own discomfort zones onstage, defined by the mixed expectations of fans and skeptics. I was definitely aware of that zone when I saw Keira Knightley in The Misanthrope in London recently. ||||| BRAD PITT's brother begged the Hollywood star to leave ANGELINA JOLIE because their family was being torn apart, The Sun can reveal. 
  
 The couple have struggled during the last 12 months of their five-year relationship but are still trying to make it work for their six children. 
  
 Brad, 46, spent the weekend in Los Angeles to take part in GEORGE CLOONEY's Haiti telethon - where he went to great lengths to avoid ex JENNIFER ANISTON - while Angelina, 34, was on a New York photoshoot. 
  
 Have Brad and Ange split? The couple have been together for 5 years News Click here to download the latest flash player. 
  
 Despite having never wed, reports yesterday claimed the couple have visited a top Beverly Hills divorce lawyer and signed a ï¿½205million split deal to carve up their assets. 
  
 Role ... pair display togetherness in February 2009 
  
 The report claimed they will also share custody of their kids who will live full time with Angelina. 
  
 Brother Doug, 41, visited Brad in New York over Christmas and urged him to pull the plug on the relationship because it was making the actor and his family unhappy. 
  
 The couple have been putting on a united front but a source said: "It's no secret they have been in a pretty loveless relationship for about a year. 
  
 "They barely spend time together and when they do it is very fraught. They want different things from life. 
  
 Ex ... Brad with Jennifer Aniston 
  
 "Brad's family are being more vocal with their doubts over the relationship. The only thing they still have in common is their kids. That's keeping them together at the moment." 
  
 Brad and Angelina had a miserable Christmas and Thanksgiving after Angelina refused once again to spend any time with Brad's family. 
  
 Tomb Raider star Angelina is also reported to have become close with a Russian teacher while filming her latest movie Salt. 
  
 Brad and Ang have also feuded for months over the issue of adoption. 
  
 Strain ... Brad hides behind beard in December 2009 
  
 She wants a baby from Syria and now Haiti while he thinks the six kids they have are more than enough. 
  
 Blamed 
  
 Other thorny issues are his desires to relocate to New Orleans and to spend more time having fun with pals. 
  
 Meanwhile Brad's mum Jane has never warmed to Angelina and is still in touch with Friends star Jen. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 But sources close to the couple called the split reports "totally false." 
  
 One source told a US website: "Everything is fine. It's business as usual." 
  
 The couple were recently spotted at a New York restaurant looking "in love". The report blamed work schedules for the time they spend apart. 
  
 Brad and Angelina have three adopted children Maddox, eight, Pax, six, and Zahara, five. 
  
 They also have three biological children Shiloh, three, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 17 months. 
  
 p.samson@the-sun.co.uk ||||| Family, friends can't seem to agree on whether Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt split rumor is true 
  
 Poujoulat/Getty Despite rumors of a split, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have remained mum on the state of their relationship. 
  
 Don't write off Brangelina so fast. 
  
 Several sources close to Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie yesterday denied reports they are splitting up - even as the Hollywood power couple remained mum. 
  
 "I was told it's not true," a source close to the couple told the Daily News. "[Brad and Angelina] are very secretive. But I was told it's not true." 
  
 "Everything is fine," another source told People magazine's Web site. 
  
 The Sun of London reported today that Pitt's brother, Doug, recently urged him to end the relationship. 
  
 "They barely spend time together and when they do it is very fraught. They want different things from life," a source close to Pitt's family told the paper. 
  
 The breakup drama started when London's News of the World reported the pair have met with California divorce lawyers - even though they're not married - to hash out an amicable division of their vast fortune and custody of their six kids. 
  
 A close friend of Pitt told author Ian Halperin that the hunky actor has been preparing to bail from his five-year relationship with the pillow-lipped Jolie for at least six months. 
  
 "His relationship with Angie is over," the pal told Halperin, author of the book "Brangelina: The Untold Story of Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie." 
  
 Buzz about a Brangelina breakup has been circulating for months. The National Enquirer reported that Pitt and Jolie had a heated argument Jan. 6 at Alto restaurant in midtown Manhattan. But just three days earlier, a source told The News, the duo shared a "pleasant" meal of roasted chicken at Le Perigord on 52nd St. 
  
 "They looked happy - very, very happy," said a manager at the restaurant. 
  
 Reps for Pitt and Jolie did not return calls for comment yesterday. Ruthie Richardson, an aunt of Jolie's who lives in Texas, said she believed her niece and Pitt were still a couple. |||||