Troy police investigate multiple deaths at 158 Second Ave. on Tuesday, Dec. 26, 2017, in Troy, N.Y. Police say four people have been found dead and may have been killed in an apartment in New York's capital... (Associated Press) 
  
 Troy police investigate multiple deaths at 158 Second Ave. on Tuesday, Dec. 26, 2017, in Troy, N.Y. Police say four people have been found dead and may have been killed in an apartment in New York's capital region. The bodies were discovered Tuesday afternoon in a basement apartment in a house in Troy,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Troy police investigate multiple deaths at 158 Second Ave. on Tuesday, Dec. 26, 2017, in Troy, N.Y. Police say four people have been found dead and may have been killed in an apartment in New York's capital region. The bodies were discovered Tuesday afternoon in a basement apartment in a house in Troy,... (Associated Press) Troy police investigate multiple deaths at 158 Second Ave. on Tuesday, Dec. 26, 2017, in Troy, N.Y. Police say four people have been found dead and may have been killed in an apartment in New York's capital... (Associated Press) 
  
 A city youth group was planning grief counseling and police renewed a plea Thursday for people to come forward with any information leading to the killer of two women and two young children in what the police chief called the worst act of "savagery" he's seen in four decades on the job. 
  
 Troy police on Thursday identified the victims as 36-year-old Shanta Myers; her children, 11-year-old Jeremiah Myers and 5-year-old Shanise Myers; and Myers' lover, 22-year-old Brandi Mells. 
  
 Shakera Symes, sister of Shanta Myers, told Spectrum News in Albany that she's now raising Myers' 15-year-old son, who has been staying with her for two months. She said the whole family is heartbroken over the brutal crime. 
  
 "It's going to devastate us for a very, very long time," Symes said Thursday. "And to have to raise the oldest, knowing he lost his entire family that day ... that's not a job that's going to be easy for me." 
  
 Officials have released few details since a property manager who was called to check on their welfare found the bodies Tuesday afternoon in a basement apartment in a house along the Hudson River in Troy, just north of Albany. 
  
 Police Chief John Tedesco said he has "never seen savagery like this." He declined to say how the victims were killed, but assured the public there was no imminent danger as it appears the victims were targeted. 
  
 "People are very nervous, very concerned that the person who did this crime is still loose," said the Rev. Jackie Robinson, a member of the city's African American Pastoral Alliance. "We're talking about organizing a meeting and inviting the whole community to come and share their concerns, with counselors to try to relieve people of stress and anxiety." 
  
 Victory Christian Church of Albany offered a $5,000 reward for any information leading to an arrest. 
  
 The Troy City School District, partnering with the Boys and Girls Club, planned to offer grief counseling Friday morning at Troy Middle School. 
  
 "Our hearts are broken and our thoughts and deepest condolences are with their family and loved ones during this terribly troubling time," School Superintendent John Carmello said in a statement. He said a crisis response team will be on hand next week when children return from holiday recess. 
  
 Robinson said Jeremiah, who was called JJ, loved basketball and was a regular at the Boys and Girls Club. "Everyone down there is crying," Robinson said. "He was well-mannered, respectful, happy all the time." 
  
 Robinson said "everyone in the neighborhood loved and respected" Shanta Myers, who he said worked as a bus monitor at one time. 
  
 Symes said her sister was a sweet, good-natured woman who loved to cook for family gatherings. She said Myers would never have been involved in anything that could provoke such an attack. 
  
 Symes implored anyone with information to contact police. 
  
 The block where the victims lived was closed to traffic Thursday morning as the investigation continued but was reopened in the afternoon, police said. ||||| "Why?!? "Why?!? "Why?!? 3 of my cousins were murdered ... 2 were babies ... 5 and 11 years old!!" Coleman wrote Thursday. "How could you put a knife to them and cut their throats .... How?!? They were babies! Jesus, please take the pain and anger away ... please." ||||| TROY — Family members of the Troy homicide victims are urging people to come forward with information on who may have taken the lives of two women and two children in their Second Avenue apartment. 
  
 Shakera Symes, whose 36-year-old sister Shanta Myers was one of the victims in the quadruple homicide, said the family won’t be able to rest until the suspect, or suspects, are found. 
  
 “Give the information to the authorities so that they can help find the person who has destroyed us, emotionally, mentally,” Symes told reporters Thursday evening at the Troy Boys & Girls Club. “It feels like somebody has ripped us to shreds.” 
  
 Myers, two of her three children – Shanise Myers, 5, and Jeremiah “JJ” Myers, 11 – as well as her partner 22-year-old Brandi Mells were found dead in their apartment at 158 Second Ave. on Tuesday. 
  
 Troy police still aren’t saying how the victims died, nor are they providing details on possible suspects, but Chief John Tedesco has assured the public there is no imminent danger because it appears the victims were targeted. Officials also are seeking the public’s help. 
  
 Police kept Second Avenue between 102nd and 103rd streets closed until Thursday evening when the road was reopened to traffic. 
  
 Tedesco called the killings an act of "savagery.” He hasn’t commented on whether any weapons were found or if there had been a forced entry. 
  
 Myers’s 15-year-old son Isaiah Smith is the sole survivor in the family. He was away when he got word of his family. 
  
 “I’m scared to go to the corner store,” the teen said. “I’m not sure if they’re coming for me next.” 
  
 Smith, Symes, Myers' nephew Khalif Coleman and Symes' husband Alphonso Dukes spoke to reporters Thursday evening at the Boys & Girls Club. Jerry Ford, a team volunteer coordinator for the facility, joined the family. 
  
 Myers was mild-mannered and obliging, always wanting to help someone and typically offering to cook delicious meals, family members said. 
  
 Jeremiah had been a member of the Troy Boys & Girls Club for six years and dreamed of playing for the Boston Celtics in the NBA. 
  
 “He was the quintessential ‘Club Kid’ who impacted the lives of so many staff, children and teens, parents and volunteers,” the club said in a statement. “It will be deeply felt by all his friends at the club and throughout our community.” 
  
 Shanise, still young, appeared to take an interest in cooking, but she also had a stubborn streak. 
  
 “That girl was like a grown woman in a little body,” Coleman said. “You ain’t telling that girl what to do, she will be in your face.” 
  
 Symes said she was going to have the 5-year-old cook spaghetti as part of their Christmas meal to show off her skills. 
  
 “My sister was supposed to be with me and her children, all three of them, for Christmas and I got robbed of that opportunity,” Symes said through tears. 
  
 The victims were found dead at about 12:50 p.m. Tuesday. Law enforcement sources said all four of the victims were bound, with their throats cut. 
  
 Symes said that, in the days before her family was found dead, she reached out to everyone who may have had contact with them. 
  
 “I would have never had any reason to believe that what the current situation is would have ever happen in a million years,” she said. “I had no reason to believe this at all.” 
  
 As details of the gruesome attack have been released, the community has come together to support those affected. 
  
 Shanise was a student at School 14 and JJ went to Troy Middle School. 
  
 The Troy City School District is partnering with the Boys & Girls Club to offer grief counseling beginning at 10 a.m. Friday at Troy Middle School. Members of the school's crisis response team also will be available next week to meet with students at School 14 and the middle school. The club also is offering counseling to its members. 
  
 The club also has has started a gofundme to help the victims' families pay for funeral and burial costs. Anyone who may be interested in donating can visit the club's Facebook page, or contact Hollyanne Buntich at hollyanneb@tbgc.org. 
  
 Albany's Victory Christian Church announced it would offer a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the perpetrators. 
  
 Capital Region Crime Stoppers is offering an additional reward of up to $1,500. People can submit anonymous tips by visiting capitalregioncrimestoppers.com or downloading the free P3 Tips app to your phone. 
  
 Family members fear what could happen if this goes unsolved. They stressed that with each passing it day their fear escalates and pleaded with the public to come forward. 
  
 “They were home, safe in their house. Understand how important the safety of your house is,” Symes said. “It’s about the answers that we deserve and we need.” |||||