KANPUR: A groom had to return home without his bride from a marriage hall in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur Dehat district after he failed to solve a simple mathematical problem.The bride-to-be got suspicious of the groom's educational qualification. Her cousins asked the groom to solve simple mathematical question, what is 15+6. The groom failed to give the correct answer and the girl refused to marry him on Wednesday.According to information, groom Ram Baran had come from Etawah district to the marriage hall to marry Lovely, daughter of Mohar Singh. The two families and other villagers gathered at the venue.The bride and her cousins received a shock when the groom said 15+6 is 17 instead of 21. This angered the girl, who refused to marry the youth.Just as the wedding was about to be solemnised, the bride walked away saying she would not marry an uneducated person. The groom's family tried to persuade her into going ahead with the ceremony but she refused to budge and walked out of the mandap."Any class I student must be able to solve the simple problem asked by us. The family of the groom had kept us in dark about the youth's qualification," Singh said. "It was a very embarrassing situation for all of us as we had come with all preparations and it was a matter of social prestige as well. We have been cheated," he added.The bride's relatives informed the police. The police did not take action against the groom and his family as both the parties reached at a compromise after intervention of some prominent citizens of the area. According to the compromise, the bride and groom's families returned gifts including jewellery exchanged during pre-marriage rituals."Both families have amicably resolved the matter," a police officer said. ||||| NEW DELHI (AP) — An Indian bride has walked out of her wedding ceremony after her groom-to-be failed to solve a simple math problem, police said Friday. 
  
 The bride tested the groom on his math skills and when he got the sum wrong, she walked out. 
  
 The question she asked: How much is 15 plus six? 
  
 His reply: 17. 
  
 The incident took place late Wednesday in Rasoolabad village near the industrial town of Kanpur in northern Uttar Pradesh state, local police officer Rakesh Kumar said Friday. 
  
 The groom's family tried persuading the bride to return, but she refused. She said the groom had misled them about his education. 
  
 "The groom's family kept us in the dark about his poor education," said Mohar Singh, the bride's father. "Even a first grader can answer this." 
  
 Local police mediated between the families and both sides returned all the gifts and jewelry that had been exchanged before the wedding, Kumar said. 
  
 Last month, another bride in Uttar Pradesh married a wedding guest after her groom-to-be had a seizure and collapsed at the wedding venue. 
  
 The groom's family had not revealed that the groom was epileptic. While the groom was rushed to a hospital in Rampur town, the bride asked one of the wedding guests to step in and married him. 
  
 Most marriages in India are arranged by the families of the bride and groom. Except for brief meetings, the couple rarely gets to know each other before the nuptials. |||||