A tense calm has descended on Egypt after a night of fierce clashes between supporters and opponents of the overthrown president, Mohamed Morsi. 
  
 At least 30 people were killed and more than 1,000 wounded in the violence that erupted on Friday and continued through the night. 
  
 A coalition of conservative groups led by Muslim Brotherhood has vowed further demonstrations on Saturday, raising fears of renewed violence.The coalition is demanding the restoration of Morsi as president. He was deposed three days ago in a military coup. 
  
 Battle lines remain drawn as anti-Morsi protesters spent the night in Cairo's Tahrir Square, with checkpoints manned by civilians. Pro-Morsi supporters have also vowed to come on to the streets to press their demand. 
  
 "The masses will continue their civilised protests and peaceful sit-ins in Cairo until the military coup is reversed and the legitimate president is restored," the Brotherhood-led coalition said in an early morning statement on Saturday. 
  
 Meanwhile, a deputy leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, former presidential candidate Khairat El-Shater, has been arrested. 
  
 Security sources said on Saturday that Shater, a wealthy businessman seen as the movement's main political strategist, was taken into custody on suspicion of incitement to violence. 
  
 Mohamed Badie, the top leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, gave a defiant speech on Friday to a crowd of Morsi supporters and vowed to protect Morsi's presidency. 
  
 "God make Morsi victorious and bring him back to the palace," he said in the speech, which was partially aired on state TV. "We are his soldiers, we defend him with our lives." 
  
 A new Islamist group also announced its formation in Egypt, calling the army's ousting of Morsi a declaration of war on its faith and threatening to use violence to impose Islamic law. 
  
 Ansar al-Sharia in Egypt said it would gather arms and start training its members, in a statement posted on an online forum for fighters in the country's Sinai region on Friday. 
  
 Violence through the night 
  
 Friday's clashes were triggered by the death of three Morsi supporters - reportedly killed by gunfire as they tried to march towards the military barracks where Morsi is believed to be held. 
  
 Morsi supporters blamed the military for the incident, a claim rejected by the army. 
  
 Rival groups also clashed near Tahrir Square. The overnight fighting finally subsided when the army separated the warring groups using armoured vehicles. 
  
 "We are not taking sides. Our mission is to secure the lives of protesters," military spokesman Colonel Ahmed Ali told AFP news agency. 
  
 Meanwhile, the US condemned the fighting and urged all sides, including the army, to stop the violence. 
  
 "We condemn the violence that has taken place today in Egypt. We call on all Egyptian leaders to condemn the use of force and to prevent further violence among their supporters," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement. 
  
 "We expect the military to ensure that the rights of all Egyptians are protected, including the right to peaceful assembly, and we call on all who are protesting to do so peacefully." 
  
 A spokesman for the UN chief Ban Ki-moon quoted him calling for a peaceful end to the crisis. 
  
 "There is no place for retribution or for the exclusion of any major party or community," Ban reportedly said. 
  
 Cairo in chaos 
  
 After nightfall on Friday, a crowd of Morsi supporters marched from Nasr City, a district of Cairo, towards the Maspero state TV building and clashed with anti-Morsi protesters on the 6th October Bridge, which is located over the Nile River. 
  
 One man was seen apparently firing a gun, while gunshots could he heard in the area. People were seen throwing rocks as the two sides advanced and retreated in turn on the bridge near Tahrir Square. 
  
 Four protesters were killed outside the Republican Guard headquarters after breaking away from a pro-Morsi demonstration, the official MENA news agency reported. 
  
 MENA also said that 12 people were killed in Alexandria. 
  
 Rioting was also reported in Al Manial district, an island in the Nile River, between Cairo and Giza, according to state TV. 
  
 Five policemen had been killed in the northern Sinai town of El-Arish, after a soldier was also killed in the region. 
  
 Egyptian armed forces denied reports that a state of emergency had been declared in the troubled Sinai Peninsula, and that curfews had been imposed. ||||| CAIRO (Reuters) - Egypt's political transition after President Mohamed Mursi was ousted by the military stumbled at the first hurdle, after the choice of liberal politician Mohamed ElBaradei as interim prime minister was thrown into doubt by Islamist objections. 
  
 ElBaradei's nomination had been confirmed by several sources and state media on Saturday, but just before midnight a presidential spokesman told reporters that the prime minister had not in fact been chosen. 
  
 The abrupt U-turn came amid opposition to the appointment by the Nour Party, Egypt's second Islamist force after Mursi's Muslim Brotherhood movement, highlighting the challenge the military faces in finding consensus among liberals and conservatives on who should run the country. 
  
 Clashes between tens of thousands of pro- and anti-Mursi protesters swept the Arab world's most populous nation on Friday and at least 35 people were killed and more than 1,000 wounded. 
  
 The violence, which saw rival factions fighting street battles in central Cairo and many others cities and towns, underlined the pressing need for a swift political solution seen as inclusive to all. 
  
 "We extend our hand to everyone, everyone is a part of this nation," the spokesman told reporters. "The Muslim Brotherhood has plenty of opportunities to run for all elections including the coming presidential elections or the ones to follow." 
  
 Minutes after he spoke, state media reported that the public prosecutor ordered that four top Brotherhood leaders held this week be detained for a further 15 days on accusations that they incited violence against protesters. 
  
 The four included Saad el-Katatni, head of the group's political wing, and Khairat El-Shater, its political strategist. 
  
 ISLAMIST SUPPORT CRUCIAL 
  
 The Brotherhood has said it wants nothing to do with the military's plans for a new interim government. It believes Mursi should be reinstated, and has pledged to keep protesting until he is. 
  
 The Nour Party, however, had agreed to the army-backed transition plan leading to new elections. Its withdrawal from the process would strip that plan of vital Islamist support. 
  
 And following the Nour rejection, the interim administration headed by Adli Mansour delayed naming the new prime minister. 
  
 On Sunday, people were still reeling from one of the bloodiest days in over two years of tumultuous upheaval since autocrat Hosni Mubarak, who ruled for 30 years, was toppled in a popular uprising that was part of the 2011 "Arab Spring". 
  
 The Brotherhood called for another day of protest on Sunday, meaning that relative calm on Saturday may prove to be only a temporary lull. 
  
 Huge protests were staged on June 30 to pressure Mursi into resigning amid growing anger at economic stagnation and the perception among many that the Brotherhood was seeking to take control of every part of the state - a charge it fiercely denies. 
  
 Millions took to the streets to cheer his ouster on Wednesday, but for many Islamists it was a bitter reversal that raised fears of a return to the suppression they endured for decades under autocratic rulers. 
  
 The military said it had not carried out a coup, but merely enforced the will of the people. 
  
 ALARM OVERSEAS 
  
 The events of the last week have raised alarm among Egypt's allies in the West, including main aid donors the United States and the European Union, and in Israel, with which Egypt has had a U.S.-backed peace treaty since 1979. 
  
 On Saturday, President Barack Obama condemned the violence, and said the United States was not working with any particular party or group in Egypt. 
  
 Washington has not condemned the military takeover or called it a coup, prompting suspicion within the Brotherhood that it tacitly supports the overthrow of the country's first freely elected president. 
  
 Obama has ordered a review to determine whether annual U.S. assistance of $1.5 billion, most which goes to the Egyptian military, should be cut off as required by law if a country's military ousts a democratically elected leader. 
  
 Egypt can ill afford to lose foreign aid. The country appears headed for a looming funding crunch unless it can quickly access money from overseas. The local currency has lost 11 percent of its value since late last year. 
  
 Newspapers on Saturday quoted ElBaradei as saying he expected Gulf Arab monarchies that were hostile to the Brotherhood's rule to offer financial support to the new authorities. 
  
 Only gas-rich Qatar provided substantial funds to Mursi's government, totaling $7 billion in loans and grants. Turkey and Libya also provided smaller loans and deposits. 
  
 (Additional reporting by Mike Collett-White, Maggie Fick, Sarah McFarlane, Tom Perry, Paul Taylor, Patrick Werr in Cairo and Steve Holland in Washington; Writing by Mike Collett-White; Editing by Eric Walsh) |||||