Medical expert Dame Carol Black is to examine the support given to addicts - and obese people - on sickness benefits to "better support them in work".
David Cameron, who ordered the review, says there is currently no requirement for such groups to undertake treatment and suggested that this could change.
But one Tory MP said it was "ethically unacceptable" to coerce people.
The idea of requiring drug users to seek treatment or lose their benefits was first suggested by the last Labour government although it was not adopted following a consultation.
During the last Parliament, the Conservatives floated extending the concept of sanctions to those with serious alcohol conditions and the clinically obese but the idea was not pursued by the coalition government.
In February, the prime minister said he would ask Dame Carol to examine the support that the 90,000 drug and alcohol addicts estimated by the government to be on sickness benefits get, a pledge included in the party's election manifesto.
Ministers said on Wednesday that the review was under way and is calling for evidence by 11 September.
Dame Carol, a former president of the Royal College of Physicians who advises the Department of Health on improving the welfare of working people, will look at the support given to those with drink and drug-related illnesses in employment or seeking to return to work.
She said she wanted to speak to addicts and employers as part of the exercise. It will examine a range of options, including the case for linking benefit entitlements to the take-up of appropriate treatment.
"It will be important to identify the most cost effective treatments and programmes both here and internationally; and how employment support services, health care, and the benefits system, interact to provide support," she said.
While support and treatment would continue to be provided for everyone, Mr Cameron said the system had to look at what to do when addicts simply refused help and expected taxpayers to continue funding their benefits.
But Sarah Wollaston, the Conservative chair of the Commons Health Select Committee and a former GP, said the government must proceed with caution if it wanted to directly link welfare payments to medical treatment.
"It is a form of coercion for consent," she told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire Show.
"I think that is ethically unacceptable. I think it would be very difficult for any doctor to take part in treating a patient without valid consent and this would invalidate their consent if it was linked to conditionality to benefits. After all, it would not be effective - we know coerced treatments tend not to work."
Labour said that despite the government's rhetoric fewer than one in ten sick and disabled people on the government's flagship welfare-to-work scheme had found permanent employment.
And the Lib Dems said those suffering from such illnesses needed to be shown more compassion.
"It is entirely right we make sure people suffering alcohol, drug or weight-related problems get effective help and support. But Tories need to realise: not everyone is a scrounger," a party spokesman said.
"They would rather treat people with an air of suspicion and frogmarch them to therapy with a threat to strip away lifeline benefits than work on ways to help."
But campaign group, the Taxpayers Alliance, welcomed the move, saying access to treatment and benefits "need not be mutually exclusive".
"We must provide a sturdy safety net for the most vulnerable, but taxpayers can't continue to fund benefits for people who show no inclination or effort to get back into employment," said its chief executive Jonathan Isaby.
"It is paths to treatment - and personal responsibility - that will get people off the benefit rolls and into work."