ATLANTIC CITY — President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie have completed an aerial tour of some the areas most affected by Hurricane Sandy. 
  
  
  
 Traveling in a presidential helicopter, Obama and Christie flew over Atlantic City, Long Beach Island, Seaside Heights, and Point Pleasant. They returned to Atlantic City International Airport at 2:24 p.m. 
  
 White House spokesman Jay Carney said the White House reached out to Christie's office to make the trip happen. He would not address how the New Jersey visit might be sending a political message less than a week before Election Day. 
  
 "This is a time to focus on what was a devastating storm and the terrible aftermath of that storm. New Jersey was by many measures the hardest hit state, I believe that's correct," he said. "It is entirely appropriate for the president to visit New Jersey and receive updates on the efforts there to recover and to view first hand the damage inflicted by Sandy. This is not a time for politics." 
  
 The president appreciates efforts from governors and local officials, "regardless of political party," Carney said. 
  
 As with past disasters, "we are very careful about making sure that the places that we visit we are not using resources that would otherwise be used in recovery efforts, that's the case here." 
  
 Amid all the devastation was a political note: Someone has written "ROMNEY" in large letters in the sand at the north end of Point Pleasant Beach. 
  
  
  
 Obama has a comfortable lead in the polls in New Jersey. 
  
  
  
 View Larger Map 
  
  
  
  ||||| Chris Christie is love-bombing President Obama -- the man he labeled clueless just last week -- and Maureen Dowd is asking why: 
  
  
  
 White House officials seemed a bit flummoxed by Christie's bearhug. "It's unnerving," one laughed, noting how odd it is that a Romney big gun might help break the stubborn tie in the electorate in Obama's favor. 
  
  
  
 They speculate that Christie, who always puts Christie first, has decided that it's better for his presidential ambitions to be a maverick blue-state governor with a Democratic chief executive exiting in 2016 than to have President Romney and Tea-Party Republicans in Congress pulling him over to the extreme right for the next eight years. He also knows he'll need a boatload of federal cash to make his state whole again. 
  
  
  
 Here are three theories about Christie: 
  
 1) The first, most benign theory: Christie, in my experience, is a deeply emotional and highly sentimental man, and he is torn-up about the devastation along the Jersey Shore. The support he's received from President Obama -- the support he receives from anyone -- at such a wrenching moment, makes him inordinately grateful. And President Obama has been extremely attentive. 
  
 2) To add to Maureen's theory, Christie is an impatient guy, and the idea of running in 2016 is much more appealing to him than running in 2020. He will have faded from memory by 2020, in any case; plus Paul Ryan, who will have been vice president for four or eight years, would be a formidable challenger. For 2016, Christie is in the top-tier of Republican candidates. In 2020, who knows? ||||| BRIGANTINE, N.J. —It was like Valentine’s Day on Halloween. 
  
 President Barack Obama and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie cemented their new-found mutual admiration society on Wednesday, as the men gushed with praise for one another while touring damage from Hurricane Sandy on the devastated Jersey Shore. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset Christie on Obama praise: I speak the truth Obama on Sandy damage Obama meets Christie in N.J. 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Christie heaps praise on Obama) 
  
 After days of effusive comments from Christie — who’s been a top Mitt Romney surrogate throughout the campaign — the president wasted no time returning the favor. 
  
 “At the top of my list, I have to say that Gov. Christie throughout this process has been responsive. He’s been aggressive in making sure that the state got out in front of this incredible storm and I think the people of New Jersey recognize that he has put his heart and soul into making sure the people of New Jersey bounce back even stronger than before,” Obama said as he stood alongside Christie during a brief press statement Wednesday afternoon near a largely destroyed marina. “So, I just want to thank him for his extraordinary leadership and partnership.” 
  
 “We are here for you and we will not forget, we will follow up to make sure you get all the help you need until you rebuild,” Obama added. 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: Christie aide denies rift with Mitt) 
  
 During the press statement and and earlier appearance at a nearby storm shelter, Christie publicly thanked Obama at least six times for his dedication to getting help and supplies to the Garden State. 
  
 ”I’m pleased to report that he has sprung into action to help get us those things immediately,” the governor said. “It’s been a great working relationship to make sure that were doing the job people elected us to do. 
  
 “I cannot thank the president enough,” added Christie, who’s statement drew a hearty handshake and a “Good job, Chris” from the president as he stepped to the microphone. 
  
 (See also: Full Sandy coverage) 
  
 As they dropped by the shelter earlier, Obama also went out of his way to salute Christie’s leadership. 
  
 “I want to just let you know that your governor is working overtime to make sure that as soon as possible everybody can get back to normal,” Obama told those being housed at a community center northeast of Atlantic City. “The main message I wanted to send is the entire country has been watching what’s been happening. Everybody knows how hard Jersey’s been hit.” 
  
 Christie assured the storm victims that Obama’s promises of aid could be counted on. “I know he means it,” the governor said. 
  
 Obama’s trip here comes at the end of a four-day hiatus from the campaign trail brought about by Hurricane Sandy. Instead of stumping in swing states, the president presented himself as a man in charge, with the White House releasing photos of him directing the federal storm response in the Situation Room in between visits to the Red Cross and Federal Emergency Management Agency headquarters. ||||| Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 WASHINGTON 
  
 The dramatic homestretch ad for President Obama, running on every network and in all media markets, is a home run, devastating for Mitt Romney. 
  
 And, best of all, the president didn’t have to pay for it, or even say, “I approve this message.” It was a total gift — and from a Republican and top Romney surrogate. 
  
 Gov. Chris Christie, the fleece-wearing, order-barking Neptune of the Jersey Shore, was all over TV Tuesday, effusively praising the president for his luminous leadership on Hurricane Sandy, the same president he mocked last week at a Romney rally in Virginia as a naif groping to find “the light switch of leadership.” 
  
 As Romney roams the Midwest and Florida struggling to stay relevant, miming coordinating storm response with G.O.P. governors and collecting canned goods to send East, his fair-weather pal Christie failed to give Mittens any disaster relief. 
  
 On ABC, CBS and NBC, Christie hailed Obama as “outstanding.” On MSNBC, he said the president “has been all over this,” and on CNN, he called Obama “incredibly supportive.” The big guy even tweeted his thanks to the slender one. 
  
 Photo 
  
 Most astonishing of all, the New Jersey governor went on Fox News and spoke words rarely heard on that network: “I have to give the president great credit.” 
  
 “I spoke to the president three times yesterday,” Christie gushed. “He called me for the last time at midnight last night, asking what he could do.” 
  
 Christie also extolled FEMA, even though Romney has said it is “immoral” to spend money on federal disaster relief when the deficit is so big. 
  
 “Fox & Friends” co-host Steve Doocy must have forgotten Christie’s self-regarding keynote speech at Romney’s convention, which had more “I” than “he” in it. Doocy asked Christie if there was “any possibility that Governor Romney may go to New Jersey to tour some of the damage with you?” The governor replied dismissively: “I have no idea, nor am I the least bit concerned or interested,” adding: “If you think right now I give a damn about presidential politics, then you don’t know me.” 
  
 White House officials seemed a bit flummoxed by Christie’s bearhug. “It’s unnerving,” one laughed, noting how odd it is that a Romney big gun might help break the stubborn tie in the electorate in Obama’s favor. 
  
 They speculate that Christie, who always puts Christie first, has decided that it’s better for his presidential ambitions to be a maverick blue-state governor with a Democratic chief executive exiting in 2016 than to have President Romney and Tea-Party Republicans in Congress pulling him over to the extreme right for the next eight years. He also knows he’ll need a boatload of federal cash to make his state whole again. 
  
 Christie was in full “Sopranos”-at-the-shore mode in his blue fleece pullover. When Irene hit last year, he yelled at lingering frolickers, “Get the hell off the beach!” This time, the governor blistered the Atlantic City mayor for sending what he called “mixed messages” on evacuation orders and warned stranded residents: “We will not be able to come and help you until daylight tomorrow.” 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 The president is still overcompensating for his first-debate pout, determined not to be a loser. He made a false start and erred on the side of politics, wasting a round-trip to Florida. He wanted to squeeze in one more rally before the storm, so he risked flying to Orlando Sunday night for a campaign event Monday morning with Bill Clinton. Told that Air Force One pilots said he needed to leave before the rally or he might get stuck outside Washington — where sun and palms would be an unfortunate backdrop — he went back to the White House. 
  
 Just about the only criticism the president got on his storm stewardship was, amazingly enough, from “Heck of a Job, Brownie” Michael Brown, the FEMA chief during Katrina, who naturally thought Obama acted too quickly and efficiently. 
  
 With Obama forced off the trail, Clinton and Joe Biden could fulfill their shared fantasy: to be the presidential candidate. In Youngstown, Ohio, the two “Last Hurrah” pols plunged into a thrilled throng to shake hands, pose for pictures, bounce babies and sign books. Biden employed his classic move of holding the cheeks of a delighted older woman, then reaching around her in a full body hug to grab the hands of a woman behind. As “Your Love Keeps Lifting Me Higher” blared, the prolix, snowy-haired pair scanned for anyone to schmooze or squeeze as the arena emptied out. The Big Dog lingered even longer than C-Span cameras. 
  
 Rather than campaigning, which he finds draining, the president was in the Oval calling a Republican to work things out. But this time, unlike with John Boehner at a fateful moment, a flattered Christie took Obama’s calls. While Romney campaigns in Florida Wednesday, Christie and Obama plan to tour storm damage in New Jersey, a picture of bipartisanship, putting distressed people above dirt-slinging politics. 
  
 And that’s a grand bargain for both of them. ||||| A 13-day chronicle of the devastating East Coast storm and its aftermath that killed more than 100 people, destroyed whole communities in coastal New York and New Jersey, left tens of thousands homeless, crippled mass transit, triggered paralyzing gas shortages, inflicted billions of dollars in infrastructure damage and cut power to more than 8 million homes, some of which remained dark for weeks. More Coverage » 
  
 Full Coverage 
  
 Comments 
  
 Photos 
  
 Game Updates 
  
 Ask The Times |||||