A Man Used His $3 Million in Lottery Winnings to Start a Meth Ring 
  
 Worst Son Ever? CA Nurse Pranked into Thinking She Won Powerball 
  
 The winner of the second largest lottery jackpot in U.S. history just came forward in Braintree, Massachusetts. 
  
 Mavis L. Wanczyk, 53, was the holder of the single winning Powerball ticket, valued at $758.7 million. The lucky ticket was sold at Pride Station & Store in Chicopee, north of Springfield. 
  
 The odds of matching all six numbers in the lottery game is one in 292.2 million. 
  
 Wanczyk was joined at the ceremony by her mother and her sisters, who traveled from Chicopee. She then told the story of the moment she realized she had the winning numbers. 
  
 Wanczyk, who works at Mercy Medical Center, said she chose the numbers at random, including some birthdays. 
  
 "I called [my employer] and told them I will not be coming back," she said. 
  
 "The first thing I want to do is I just want to sit back and relax." 
  
 She said she selected 4, which was the Powerball number, because it's her lucky Keno number. The store that sold the ticket will receive $50,000 and will donate it to charity, a lottery official said. 
  
 The mammoth jackpot accumulated over the course of weeks after 20 straight winner-less drawings. 
  
 Watch her comments above. 
  
 IL Woman Wins Lotto Prize After Playing Family Members' Ages as Numbers 
  
 Cavuto to Trump: Stop 'Kicking the Guys on Your Side in the A**' 
  
 Sheriff Joe: I Respect President Trump 'Pardon or No Pardon' ||||| The woman who purchased the sole winning Powerball ticket has been identified as 53-year-old Mavis L. Wanczyk from Chicopee, Massachusetts, who came forward Thursday to claim her winnings. 
  
 Wanczyk purchased the winning Powerball ticket at the Pride Station & Store in Chicopee, Massachusetts. She becomes the winner of the largest single-ticket Powerball jackpot in history. 
  
 Wanczyk, a mother of a daughter and son, says she chose the winning numbers based on her family's birthdays. She says she does not plan to return to her job at a local hospital. She appeared at a press conference with officials from the Massachusetts State Lottery on Thursday afternoon. 
  
 During the press conference, Wanczyk told reporters she found out she had won the jackpot as she was leaving work Wednesday night with a colleague. 
  
 CBS News 
  
 "He's reading these numbers, and I pull mine out, and I go, 'Hey, I have that number. And I have that -- I have that!'" she told reporters. "And he goes, 'Let me see that ticket. You just won!'" 
  
 The numbers she chose were based off the birthdays of family members and an assortment of random selections, Wanczyk said. 
  
 "My numbers were kind of basically random, like maybe with our birthdays, one from here, one from there," she said. "There's a thing between me and my mom and my stepfather and I have a friend, we all go out to dinner on a Friday night and we play Keno, and our number is four. I just happened to choose, and it worked to my advantage." 
  
 Lottery officials said Wanczyk chose to take a lump-sum payment of $480 million, or $336 million after taxes, the Associated Press reported, rather than a larger amount spread out over many annual payments. 
  
 Wanczyk said the first thing she'll do is take some time off. 
  
 "I just want to sit back and relax," Wanczyk said. "I had a pipe dream, and my pipe dream has finally come true. I wanted to retire and it came early." 
  
 CBS Boston reports the store will get $50,000 for selling the winning ticket. This is the fourth time a Powerball jackpot winning ticket has been sold in Massachusetts. The others were sold in 2011, 2012 and 2013. 
  
 Ahead of the press conference, Michael Sweeney, executive director of the Massachusetts lottery, called Wanczyk "a prototypical Massachusetts resident." 
  
 "My perception of her is someone who's a hard-working individual. Clearly she's excited," Sweeney said. 
  
 The winning numbers selected late Wednesday night were 6, 7, 16, 23, 26 and Powerball number 4. 
  
 The $758 million prize reflects the annuity option, paid over 29 years. 
  
 The odds of winning Wednesday night's drawing were 1 in 292.2 million. ||||| CLOSE A 53-year-old hospital worker and mom of two from Chicopee, Massachusetts, came forward to claim the $758 winning Powerball prize on Thursday Time 
  
 Mavis L. Wanczyk, right, poses with Massachusetts state treasurer Deborah Goldberg on Aug. 24, 2017, after coming forward only hours after winning the $758 million multi-state Powerball lottery jackpot. (Photo: Barry Chin, The Boston Globe via EPA) 
  
 A Massachusetts hospital worker who considered winning the lottery a "pipe dream" cashed in the most valuable ticket in U.S. history Thursday, hours after her numbers came up for the $758.7 million Powerball jackpot. 
  
 "My pipe dream came true," Mavis Wanczyk, of Chicopee, said at a news conference Thursday afternoon, adding that the first thing she wants to do is "hide in my bed." 
  
 Wanczyk, 53, said she worked for Mercy Medical Center in Springfield for 32 years. 
  
 "I called them and told them I will not be coming back," she said with a laugh. 
  
 She said she and a co-worker checked their numbers at work Wednesday night after the drawing. She said she was so rattled when she realized she won she was nervous about driving. Her co-worker followed her home. 
  
 Wanczyk, who has a 31-year-old daughter and a 26-year-old son, said her good fortune began to sink in Thursday. 
  
 "I have come down from all that," she said. "I want to just be me, be alone and figure out what I want to do." 
  
 Wanczyk, who chose to take a lump sum of $480 million before taxes, bought the ticket Wednesday afternoon at a Pride market in Chicopee, 90 miles west of Boston. Early Thursday, however, the lottery agency had said the winning ticket was sold at a convenience store outside Boston. 
  
 The initial announcement sent a flock of media to Handy Variety in Watertown. Handy Variety owner Kamaljeet Kaur took the updated news pretty well, considering she had been set to collect $50,000 for selling the big winner. 
  
 A ticket sold at #HandyVariety in #Watertown, MA is the lone winner of the $758.7 million #Powerball jackpot!!! pic.twitter.com/BvYZ4eauSC — Mass. State Lottery (@MAStateLottery) August 24, 2017 
  
 “I’m OK ... still happy,” she told The Boston Globe. Her solace: The store will receive $10,000 for selling a $1 million winning ticket. 
  
 State lottery Executive Director Michael Sweeney apologized for the confusion. He blamed a transcription error when officials manually recorded the dealers that sold the big winner and two other retailers that sold $1 million tickets. 
  
 Bob Boduc, who owns the Chicopee store, said he didn't find out his store sold the ticket until he started getting calls from national networks. He said he would contribute the store's $50,000 to local charities. 
  
 Bob Bolduc, founder and owner of Pride stores, holds a news conference Aug. 24, 2017, at the Pride Station & Store in Chicopee, Mass., where the winning ticket for the Powerball was sold. (Photo: Steven Senne, AP) 
  
 "It's really pretty amazing," he said. "It could have happened anywhere in the country. It's really a stroke of luck." 
  
 The winning numbers: 6-7-16-23-26 with a Powerball of 4 
  
 The prize was the second-largest Powerball payout in history, behind a $1.58 billion payout in 2016 shared by three winners. The drawing Wednesday night snapped a string of 20 in a row without a Powerball jackpot winner. 
  
 In addition to the big winner, many more hopefuls will come away with something from the drawing. Six people won $2 million each and 34 more won $1 million. Grand prize winner aside, 9,397,723 other tickets won more than $135 million, lottery officials said. 
  
 More: You won't want to win the $700 million Powerball jackpot after reading these horror stories 
  
 More: Here's what you could buy if you won the $700 million Powerball 
  
 There are 292,201,338 possible Powerball combinations, making the odds of winning 1 in 292,201,338.00. So, at $2 a ticket, it would cost someone $584,402,676 to buy every possible combination. 
  
 The overall odds of winning any prize from one $2 ticket are 1 in 24.87. 
  
 There have been two other Powerball jackpots of at least $430 million this year. A jackpot in June reached $448 million, while another in February was worth $435 million. 
  
 The jackpot for Saturday's drawing drops to a mere $40 million. Powerball is played in 44 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. 
  
 Contributing: Hillard Grossman, Florida Today. 
  
 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Winning the Powerball? You'll instantly be richer than these 7 stars | 1:27 The lottery jack pot is worth $700 Million. If a single person were to win the prize they'd instantly become richer than these 7 celebrities. Time 1 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Powerball is over $700 million: Here's why you shouldn't be impressed | 1:28 When fewer people were playing, participating states changed the rules to allow for bigger jackpots. But you might not like what they did. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 2 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Wis. gas station flooded with Powerball hopefuls | 1:01 The Wisconsin gas station that sold a $156 million Powerball ticket this spring is a popular place to buy tickets for the upcoming $700 million drawing, the second-largest Powerball jackpot in U.S. history. (Aug. 23) AP 3 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Why lottery winners make dangerous neighbors | 1:30 Neighbors of lottery winners tend to go bankrupt Time 4 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Two holes in one more likely than lotto win | 1:26 NYU Stern School of Business Statistics professor Aaron Tenenbeim says the average person has a better chance of golfing a hole in one twice in a row than winning a Powerball lottery jackpot. AP 5 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW What to do with your piles of cash after winning The Powerball | 1:59 Before you make a mattress out of money, take these steps to protect your new fortune. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 6 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Your four best friends after winning the lottery | 1:21 Winning the powerball is a dream come true, but you'll probably need some financial advice. Here are four professionals ready to help out. VPC 7 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW First things you should do if you win Powerball jackpot | 1:47 Winning the lottery would be great but have you thought about all of the risks that come with being a billionaire? USA TODAY 8 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW 5 things more likely to happen than winning the powerball | 1:08 Have you bought in to the powerball frenzy? If so, you may want to reconsider that ticket because your odds of winning aren't very good. 9 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Sports odds more likely than winning Powerball | 0:55 So you're saying there's a chance. USA TODAY 10 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Millennials aren't buying lottery tickets | 1:08 The decrease in lottery ticket sales among millennials has lotto operators concerned. Buzz60's Angeli Kakade has more. Buzz60 11 of 12 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE PLAYING THE LOTTERY? HERE ARE SOME THINGS TO KNOW Winning the Powerball will make you richer than these 7 celebrities | 1:27 The lottery jack pot is worth $700 Million. If a single person were to win the prize they'd instantly become richer than these 7 celebrities. Time 12 of 12 Last VideoNext Video Winning the Powerball? You'll instantly be richer than these 7 stars 
  
 Powerball is over $700 million: Here's why you shouldn't be impressed 
  
 Wis. gas station flooded with Powerball hopefuls 
  
 Why lottery winners make dangerous neighbors 
  
 Two holes in one more likely than lotto win 
  
 What to do with your piles of cash after winning The Powerball 
  
 Your four best friends after winning the lottery 
  
 First things you should do if you win Powerball jackpot 
  
 5 things more likely to happen than winning the powerball 
  
 Sports odds more likely than winning Powerball 
  
 Millennials aren't buying lottery tickets 
  
 Winning the Powerball will make you richer than these 7 celebrities 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2xujcLy |||||