Snap is making its investors' money disappear. After plunging 23% on its first quarter earnings report, Snap shares -- of which a mere 8.7% are sold short -- have further to fall. 
  
 I see three reasons for that: a man-child CEO, the competitive threat from Facebook, and an undisciplined growth strategy. (I have no financial interest in the securities mentioned in this post). 
  
 On May 10, Snap reported slower revenue growth and a bigger loss than analysts expected. More specifically, its $2.21 billion loss or $2.31 a share was a whopping $1.10 higher than the FactSet consensus. 
  
 That 36% sequential increase in revenue to $149.6 million fell $8.7 million below the FactSet consensus and below the 53% growth it enjoyed in the same quarter of 2016. What's more, Snap's average revenue per user fell 14.3% from the previous quarter to 90 cents on a 36% boost to 166 million daily active users. 
  
 There are three compelling reasons to bet against this company's stock. 
  
 1. Man-child CEO 
  
 Evan Spiegel's conduct in Snap's May 10 conference call reflects the most frightening issue for investors in its stock. Thanks to the insurmountable voting control of Spiegel and CTO Robert Murphy who hold nearly 89% of its voting power, investors in its shares have no recourse but to pay the tuition for the CEO's on the job training. 
  
 And Spiegel does need lots of training -- after all he sounded convinced that he could snap (pun intended) his fingers and change how investors evaluate whether to buy or sell stock. 
  
 According to Bloomberg, he "spoke as if the quarter was a success. He deflected questions and concerns by explaining that people may just not understand the value of his platform yet, or the company’s unique business model. For advertisers, the biggest hurdle is 'education' about how effective Snap’s products can be, he said. And when it comes to adding users, he said Snap doesn’t stoop to the 'growth hacking' tactics of rivals, like asking people to add all their phone contacts as friends, which he views as unsustainable." 
  
 Maybe Spiegel will learn fast and turn into a great CEO. But since he is surrounded by a bubble that pampers his every whim and is securely ensconced on his throne thanks to his voting control of the stock he is likely to remain the same self-satisfied Spiegel he is today. 
  
 2. Facebook 
  
 His blasé attitude towards investors would be fine were Snap the only stock out there. 
  
 For example, Facebook is eating Snap's lunch. In April, Facebook's Instagram said it had "200 million daily users of Instagram Stories, a feature of the photo-sharing app that mimics Snapchat's popular function," according to the Wall Street Journal. 
  
 Users say they prefer the Facebook feature. 25% of respondents in an April survey of 3,000 Americans conducted by Goodwater Capital prefer Stories on one of Facebook's platforms -- 13 percentage points more than those who said they like Snapchat's Stories better. 
  
 Spiegel displayed what looks to me like overconfidence in the face of the threat from Facebook. As he said in the conference call, “If you want to be a creative company, you have got to be comfortable with and enjoy the fact that people copy your products if you make great stuff. Just because Yahoo! has a search box doesn’t mean they’re Google.” 
  
 3. Undisciplined growth strategy 
  
 Facebook has a similarly entrenched CEO and suffered a big plunge in its stock after its initial public offering. But unlike Snap, Facebook had and still does have a disciplined growth strategy. 
  
 In Facebook's May 2012 prospectus, it cited as a big risk that it had no mobile strategy. Today, Facebook gets 86% of its revenue from mobile advertising. This is one of the more significant proof points that Mark Zuckerberg is more capable than Spiegel when it comes to identifying important untapped growth opportunities and taking the steps needed to grab a significant market share of them. 
  
 Snap's growth strategy appears undisciplined to me. The company is spending more on advertising deepening its operating loss, "which more than doubled to $188 million and surpassed its revenue of $149.6 million," according to the Journal. 
  
 As Snap grows, it is suffering from severe diseconomies of scale. In the first quarter of 2017, its costs per daily active user soared over 12-fold from $1.16 to $14.24 as its revenue per DAU declined 14.3%. 
  
 And Snap's growth vectors -- new services and new geography -- appear flawed. For example, Snap was running into technical problems with its Android version. As BusinessInsider wrote, "Android bugs had contributed to its slowed user growth in Q4." 
  
 Snap seems to be trying a throw-spaghetti-at-the-wall-and-see-what-sticks approach to new features. These include a "'Snap to Store' ad offering, which ties campaigns back to foot traffic in physical stores" -- but given Amazon's success at the expense of physical stores, this seems like two drowning men intertwining on their way down. 
  
 Snap is also struggling to expand geographically -- Spiegel said that internet access in less-developed parts of the world is "a real issue" and he infuriated "India over an alleged comment [he] made about not caring about 'poor countries,'" according to BusinessInsider. 
  
 Snap has $1.4 billion in cash and burned through $173 million in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2017, according to Snap. Since it has no long-term debt, Snap does not seem to be in the kind of imminent cash flow danger that would warrant selling its shares short. 
  
 It could make sense to investigate an options-based strategy to bet on the decline in Snap's stock. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Traders at the post where Snap Inc. is traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Thomson Reuters Oh, Snap. 
  
 The newly public company plummeted as much as 24% to $17.59 on the first day of regular trading after a disappointing earnings report that saw user growth slow to its lowest pace in years. 
  
 The stock on Thursday afternoon was trading just above the company's initial-public-offering price of $17. Snap also missed consensus forecasts for adjusted earnings and revenue. 
  
 But it wasn't all bad news for stock investors — short sellers are poised to make a killing on the share plunge. The day before the report, they pushed bearish wagers on the stock to the highest level since Snap's March 1 IPO, selling a whopping $100 million short over the past week alone, according to data compiled by the financial analytics firm S3 Partners. 
  
 It's sweet redemption for the bearish Snap speculators, who had lost $28.4 million on a mark-to-market basis betting on the company following the IPO, according to S3 data. 
  
 On the other side of the ledger is Snap cofounder and CEO Evan Spiegel. Worth roughly $5 billion heading into the earnings release, according to wealth rankings compiled by Bloomberg, Spiegel is out about $1 billion following the stock decline. 
  
 As Spiegel and his Snap colleagues look to rebound, Wall Street analysts are split on whether they'll be able to pull it off. 
  
 With a price target of $14, Nomura sees Snap sliding further, citing "incrementally fierce competition from deeper-pocketed rivals including Facebook." 
  
 Pivotal Research is even more pessimistic, calling for Snap to fall all the way to $9 a share. They noted a "surprising element of seasonality" in the business, while lamenting the risk that Snap wouldn't grow by as much as the firm previously expected. 
  
 Some of the biggest banks on Wall Street line up on the other side of the Snap debate. Goldman Sachs has a price target of $27 and believes the company's "audience and engagement represent a unique asset that will benefit from growth and diversification of internet usage and advertiser adoption as both mature." 
  
 Citi shares a similar sentiment. While the firm acknowledges that Snap's first earnings report will be a hurdle in the short term, it sees "the low rate of monetization and the high rate of engagement enabling revenue growth and margin leverage over the long-term." ||||| Too early to call Snap's future: Analyst Thursday, 11 May 2017 | 6:18 AM ET | 03:35 
  
 Evan Spiegel's Snap faces one major hurdle that Facebook didn't have when it went public five years ago, equity strategist Michael Graham told CNBC on Thursday. 
  
 The senior equity strategist at Canaccord Genuity spoke a day after Snapchat's parent fell short of Wall Street expectations for revenue and user growth in its first earnings report as a public company. The report was also an indicator on how the company has fared as Facebook pushes aggressively into its turf. 
  
 That's "a big competitor right in front of them," Graham said on "Squawk Box." "The fact that every month Snap will be battling [Facebook's] Instagram for users is a real difference in the two stories." 
  
 When Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took the social media company public in May 2012, he faced the rise of Pinterest and Twitter setting records in part from the U.S. presidential election. Facebook acquired Instagram a month earlier. |||||