A German shepherd was rescued by police in California after surviving for at least five weeks on a freeway median. 
  
 People noticed a dog hiding in the bushes on a median on Highway 99 near Simmerhorn Road as early as April 10, when the Galt Police Department said they got their first call about the animal falling from a pickup truck in the area. ||||| A German Shepard seen wandering down the center median of Highway 99 in Galt was finally captured by police, five weeks after she first fell off a pickup truck. 
  
 Officers first received a 911 call on April 10 alerting them that the dog, nicknamed Freeway Frida, had fallen from a truck and her owners hadn’t realized it. 
  
 Galt police went to search for her that day but were unsuccessful. 
  
 In the days and weeks that followed, dozens of calls kept coming in about an injured dog seen wandering down the center median of the highway in the oleander bushes. Officers kept searching without luck. 
  
 “Last week, when we stopped getting calls, I thought something happened, she, you know, died,” Galt Police Officer Silvia Coelho said. 
  
 However, another sighting of Frida was reported about 6:30 a.m. Saturday. Coelho knew it was now or never. 
  
 “We are getting her today, that’s it,” Coelho said. “It’s Saturday morning (and) traffic is light. We are getting this dog.” 
  
 With the help of the California Highway Patrol, Galt police shut down Hwy. 99 and found Frida, who initially put up a fight against being captured and continued to hide from officers. But the malnourished and scared dog finally gave in. 
  
 “She just laid down and looked at us with those big brown eyes and was like, ‘Oh thank you,' and like, 'Please help me,’” Coelho said. 
  
 Coelho took Frida to VCA Bradshaw Animal Hospital in Elk Grove, where veterinarian Dr. Mike Johnson diagnosed Frida with a broken tibia. 
  
 She was also emaciated and weighed just 44 pounds. A healthy adult German Shepard should weigh at least 65 pounds. 
  
 “We were speculating on what she’s been doing for food and water these last five weeks,” Johnson said. “Maybe the rain.” 
  
 At first, Frida was skittish and scared. However, once she realized the veterinarians were there to help, she warmed up to them. 
  
 “You could tell that she had a good home some place because she responded well to people being around her,” Johnson said. 
  
 Coelho has returned to the hospital twice to spend time with Frida. She’s even considered adopting her. 
  
 “I wish I could keep her,” Coelho said. “With my line of work, I’m never home, so she needs a good, loving home that will help her heal.” 
  
 However, Coelho isn’t too upset. After weeks of trying to catch her, Frida is finally safe. 
  
 “It made our day," Coelho said. "The whole day we were just all smiles and so happy.” 
  
 Galt police are still searching for Frida’s owner and hope to reunite them. She did not have a microchip. 
  
 KCRA's Tom Miller contributed to this report. ||||| Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 GALT -- Galt police are hoping to find the owner of a German shepherd that was rescued from the median of Highway 99 near Simmerhorn Road over the weekend. 
  
 They say the animal, now affectionately named "Freeway Frida," eluded capture among the oleander bushes in that median for more than a month. 
  
 The first call about the German shepherd came into the Galt dispatch center on April 10. The caller reported a dog falling or jumping out of a pickup truck in the area, according to police. 
  
 “People have been calling the police department reporting that they keep seeing this dog, but every time we’re out there, we can never find the dog,” said Galt police Officer Sylvia Coelho. 
  
 The call that finally led to the rescue came early Saturday morning. Coelho responded along with fellow Galt police Officer Hill. 
  
 “And with the help and assistance of CHP, who were awesome to assist us, we were able to catch her finally after almost five weeks of being in the median,” explained Coelho, who also said the dog was clearly frightened after spending so many weeks next to the busy freeway. 
  
 “Once CHP was able to get the snare on her, she fought a little bit, but then she subsided and just laid down, and those big brown eyes were looking up at us like ‘please help me,'" she said. 
  
 Frida is now recovering and gaining strength at VCA Bradshaw Animal Hospital in Elk Grove. 
  
 “And just the way that she acted when she came in here, you could tell that she was looking for a home,” said Dr. Mike Johnson, medical director at the animal hospital. 
  
 She is eating well and gained three pounds between Saturday and Monday. She weighed 44 pounds when she was admitted. Normal weight for her breed is between 65 and 75 pounds, according to the hospital. She is also being treated for a broken leg. 
  
 Frida is sweet, domesticated and well trained but was not micro-chipped. 
  
 Dr. Johnson estimates her age as about 5 or 6 years old. Anyone with information about who she belongs to is encouraged to contact the Galt Police Department 
  
 Her rescuers and veterinarian marvel at how she was able to survive those weeks in the median. 
  
 “She found some source of food," Dr. Johnson said. "I don’t know whether it was in garbage or whatnot.” 
  
 “I think because we’ve had the rain on-and-off, that helped," added Officer Coelho. 
  
 "I think she’s got a good soul," Johnson said. "Just one of those kinds of dogs.” |||||