- A principal in Farmington Hills lost a bet with his students, so he had to spend the night on the roof. 
  
 Principal Steve Vercellino at Forest Elementary School, or Mr. V as the kids call him, challenged his kids to raising $20,000 for their school. He didn't think the kids could do it, but they rose to the occassion. 
  
 "I made a challenge and I lost," he says. "But actually, I won -- because the kids raised $20,000." 
  
 Vercellino started setting up camp on the school's roof Thursday at 3 p.m. He had to come down for a few hours for Parent Teacher Conferences, but then went right back up. His set up included a tent, pizza, coffee and even an end table with a lamp. 
  
 Temperatures got down in the low 40s overnight, and he admits he got pretty cold -- but not to tell the kids that. 
  
 "I don't want to think they won in that part, that they tortured me," he laughed. "It's a little chilly." 
  
 Vercellino tells us the money is put right back into the kids' school, and helps pay for things like books, technology and their ice cream social. 
  
 Last year, he ate chocolate covered worms and grasshoppers after the challenge. We'll see what he'll be up to in 2018. ||||| FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich. (WXYZ) - The students at Forest Elementary return to school Friday morning knowing the principal will be a bit tired. 
  
 That’s because Principal Steve Vercellino spent the better part of Thursday afternoon, and all of Thursday night, sleeping on the roof after his kids raised more than $20,000. The amazing part is that they raised the money in just three weeks, all of it earmarked for school programs or the library. 
  
 “I’m running out of challenges that will stump these kids,” said Vercellino, perched atop his school. “They’re amazing and they rise to the occasion each time.” 
  
 In the past Vercellino has challenged the kids to raise funds by promising to eat chocolate covered worms, he’s also committed to performing a song and dance — the kids met his goal for funds raised both times. 
  
 “I have no idea what I’ll do next year.” 
  
 Students raised money this year by putting on a color run, and taking donations from parents, relatives and community members. 
  
 Vercellino told 7 Action News that the students get involved quite a bit, in fact, they were stopping by with parents throughout the evening to make sure he was stocked up on food, and to wish him the best of luck. 
  
 He did get a short break from the roof around 4 p.m. Parent-Teacher conferences took place on Thursday meaning he had to stop by the school and greet parents for the first hour, or two, of the event. He returned to the roof around 7 p.m. with his tent, a lamp and some extra warm clothes as the temperatures dipped into the 40s. 
  
 “It’s a bit chillier than I thought,” said Vercellino. 
  
 The principal plans to go straight back to work from his spot on top of the building once the school day begins. ||||| share tweet pin email 
  
 Sometimes a good night’s sleep is overrated, especially when you’re a principal who just helped raise $20,000 for his school. 
  
 Steven Vercellino, principal of Forest Elementary School, always adds a fun twist to the school’s annual fundraiser. This year he promised to spend a night on the school’s roof if students managed to reach their $20,000 goal. 
  
 Photo courtesy Cheryl Clark Principal Vercellino made a wager with his students over the school's ambitious fundraising goal. 
  
 “It’s about having fun and building a sense of community,” Vercellino told TODAY. “It’s a win-win because we benefit from it and we’re able to purchase things in addition to what we already have, which is awesome, like additional books for our library that we use to teach our children how to read. But in the kids’ eyes, they get to be a part of all the fun.” 
  
 Photo courtesy David Guralnick Principal Vercellino enjoyed the view from his place for the night. 
  
 And students at the Farmington Hills, Michigan, elementary school definitely had their fun. 
  
 “There was a lot of squealing,” said Laura Nemeth, president of the school's Parent Teacher Association. “They were very excited. He was on the roof Thursday when they were being dismissed from school, so the kids were coming to get on the buses and he was already up there with the tent and the lamp. And then as the kids visited him in the night, they were equally as excited.” 
  
 Photo courtesy David Guralnick Kids were excited to see their principal stay true to his word and spend the night on the roof. 
  
 Vercellino brought a tent, sleeping bag, nightstand, lamp and a heater up to the roof with him. His staff bought him a pizza, and other visitors brought him coffee and hot chocolate. 
  
 “This great family that I’ve had at Forest for a while, their son and daughter brought me a teddy bear so I wouldn’t be alone,” said Vercellino. “That was really cute.” 
  
 The principal only got about two hours of sleep thanks to all the visitors, including local news crews that came in the early morning to check on him. 
  
 Photo courtesy Cheryl Clark Principal Vercellino had to take a break from roughing it on the roof to attend parent-teacher conferences. 
  
 “He stayed all day at school on Friday and then we had our enchanted forest, which is our Halloween-themed trick-or-treating event, so he stayed all night at school to help do that and pass out candy for the kids,” said Susan Macshara, another member of the Forest Elementary PTA. “It was awesome. He must’ve been really tired. We couldn’t ask for anything better as a parent.” 
  
 Vercellino, who is now in his eighth year as principal of the school, has no problem putting himself out there just to see a smile on his kids’ faces. After completing previous fundraisers, he wowed his students by lip-syncing “Shake It Off,” eating chocolate-covered worms and grasshoppers, and riding around in a tricycle while wearing a cape, wig and glasses. 
  
 “So many people think schools are in the business of just teaching, but it’s a lot more than that,” Vercellino said. “It’s about building relationships and believing in kids, and that’s done sometimes just by being silly and having fun.” |||||