The US anti-missile interceptors currently being installed across the US as a defensive measure in case of a nuclear missile attack contain flaws, despite the Pentagon touting the technology's most recent test flight as a resounding success. 
  
 Anti-missile interceptors, also known as anti-ballistic missiles, are surface-to-air missile systems designed to intercept incoming ballistic missiles. In the US, the system is called Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) and it uses a kinetic projectile to intercept enemy warheads in space and detonate them safely outside the Earth's atmosphere. 
  
 The system was first conceptualised during the Clinton administration in 1998 and was eventually developed and deployed by George W Bush's administration before becoming operational in 2004. 
  
 However now an investigation has found that in fact the small rocket thrusters within the anti-missile interceptors that provide propulsion in fact have performance problems that would cause the interceptors to veer off-course, and on top of that, no move is being made to replace the thrusters in the 30 anti-missile interceptors already in existence. 
  
 Pentagon scientists, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the LA Times that the GMD system, which has already cost US taxpayers over $40bn (£31bn), has actually failed to intercept and destroy mock warheads about 50% of the time in carefully scripted tests, and the Pentagon's so-called "successful" test flight on 28 January was in fact dogged by technical problems. 
  
 "The mission wasn't successful" 
  
 "The mission wasn't successful," one of the scientists said, explaining that one of the thrusters failed, causing the interceptor to fly in a wide "miss distance" of the target that was 20 times greater than expected. "Did the thruster perform as expected? No, it did not provide the control necessary for a lethal impact of an incoming threat." 
  
 The press release released after the test flight by Aerojet Rocketdyne, which makes the rocket thrusters within the interceptors, paints a much more positive picture: "This successful flight represented three years of hard work and dedication by our entire team. We are very proud of this accomplishment and look forward to many years of production of this advanced propulsion system." 
  
 Similarly positive press releases were issued by Raytheon, a contractor that assembles the thrusters, as well as from the Missile Defense Agency (a branch of the US Dept of Defense), but when questioned, the agency admitted that there was a problem during the test flight. 
  
 "There was an observation unrelated to the new thruster hardware that has been investigated and successfully root-caused," the agency said. "Any necessary corrective actions will be taken for the next flight test." 
  
 Flawed thrusters still being deployed in current interceptors 
  
 At the moment, there are 30 operational interceptors stationed at the Vandenberg Air Force Base in California and at Fort Greely in Alaska, and the Obama administration is pushing ahead with plans to have an additional 14 interceptors installed at Fort Greely by the end of 2017. 
  
 However the Pentagon scientists say that the thrusters have never worked that well and failed to hit their targets during successive test flights in 2010 due to various technical problems including a missing fastener in the thruster assembly and severe vibrations that disrupted the interceptor's internal guidance system. 
  
 A new thruster model was designed and failed a ground test in 2013, so instead officials decided to leave the original thruster model with its various problems in the 30 currently deployed interceptors. On top of this, in order to get all the new interceptors deployed by end of 2017, the old flawed thruster will also be installed in four of the 14 new interceptors, while the latest version of the thruster from the January test flight will be used in the remaining 10 interceptors. 
  
 Perhaps the US military is reasoning that there won't be a nuclear missile attack any time soon, but it still seems pretty pointless to have an active defence system in place that doesn't actually work properly. ||||| WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. missile defense system to counter attacks from rogue states like North Korea has no proven capability to protect the United States and is not on a credible path to achieve that goal, a science advocacy group said on Thursday. 
  
 A flight test of the exercising elements of the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system is launched by the 30th Space Wing and the U.S. Missile Defense Agency at the Vandenberg AFB, California June 22, 2014. REUTERS/Gene Blevins 
  
 The ground-based midcourse missile defense system, which has deployed 30 interceptors in Alaska and California, has been tested under highly scripted conditions only nine times since being deployed in 2004, and failed to destroy its target two-thirds of the time, the Union of Concerned Scientists said in a report. 
  
 “After nearly 15 years of effort to build the GMD homeland missile defense system, it still has no demonstrated real-world capability to defend the United States,” said Laura Grego, a UCS physicist who co-authored the report. 
  
 Deficiencies in the program, which has cost $40 billion so far and is being expanded to include 44 interceptors by 2017, are due largely to a Bush administration decision to exempt the system from normal oversight and accountability, to rush it into service by 2004, Grego said in an interview. 
  
 “Instead of getting something out to the field that worked well or worked adequately, in fact this has been a disaster. It’s done the opposite,” she said. 
  
 The Missile Defense Agency conducts the first intercept flight test of a land-based Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense weapon system from the Aegis Ashore Missile Defense Test Complex in Kauai, Hawaii, December 10, 2015. REUTERS/U.S. Missile Defense Agency/Leah Garton/Handout via Reuters 
  
 The Obama administration’s efforts to improve oversight while keeping the system outside the normal development and procurement process have contributed to the problems, she said. 
  
 “The lack of accountability has had and will have real lasting effects, especially for a system ... that’s strategically important. It should be held to the highest standards, the highest rigor,” she added. 
  
 The Missile Defense Agency said in a statement the rapid deployment requirement in the law that created the system was “a driving factor” in the delivery of a ground-based interceptor with “reliability challenges.” 
  
 The agency said the problems had led to changes in the interceptor’s design and a program to improve reliability, including use of more mature technologies. The MDA said it was seeking ways to reduce the risks of deploying equipment still under development. 
  
 The UCS report echoed criticisms the homeland missile defense system has faced from other quarters. A Pentagon assessment in 2015 found that flight testing of the system was still “insufficient to demonstrate that an operationally useful defense capability exists.” 
  
 A February report by Congress’s Government Accountability Office said the MDA was taking a “high-risk” approach by buying interceptors still under development for operational use. ||||| The system designed to defend American cities and towns against a nuclear attack by North Korea is “simply unable to protect the U.S. public” and will remain ineffective unless Congress exerts rigorous oversight, according to a new report. 
  
 The report, to be released Thursday by the Union of Concerned Scientists, recommends that the Obama administration halt the expansion of the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system, known as GMD, until its technical problems have been solved. 
  
 “The story of this system is a cautionary tale about how the lack of appropriate oversight of a politically charged missile defense program has led to a system in tatters,” said the report, written by three physicists with expertise in missile defense. 
  
 “Despite more than a decade of development and a bill of $40 billion, the GMD system is simply unable to protect the U.S. public,’’ the authors wrote. 
  
 The GMD system is intended to thwart a “limited” nuclear strike by a non-superpower adversary, such as North Korea or Iran. 
  
 In the event of an attack, rocket interceptors at Vandenberg Air Force Base in Santa Barbara County and Ft. Greely, Alaska, would be launched from underground silos. Once in space, the interceptors would separate from their booster rockets and attempt to slam into and “kill” enemy warheads. 
  
 The report notes that in “heavily scripted” flight tests that are “set up for success,” GMD interceptors have often failed to hit mock enemy warheads. In the seven most recent tests, interceptors destroyed their targets just three times, the report says -- a finding consistent with conclusions of the Pentagon’s operational test and evaluation office. 
  
 Personnel conducting the tests know the speed, location and trajectory of the target ahead of time, as well as when it will be launched – information they would not have in a real attack. 
  
 The report relies extensively on articles published over the last two years by the Los Angeles Times, along with a National Academy of Sciences report and the findings of federal auditors and the Pentagon test office. 
  
 The report said members of Congress and Pentagon officials insisted on deploying and expanding the system at a rapid pace—at the expense of sound procurement and engineering. 
  
 “Repeatedly,” the report said, “the Pentagon has sacrificed quality, shortened engineering cycles and sidestepped acquisitions best practices to meet a deadline imposed by political rationales rather than technical realities.” 
  
 Pentagon officials have also made “unsubstantiated claims about the system’s effectiveness,” the report says, calling this “both cynical and a disservice to the public.’’ 
  
 The Pentagon has sacrificed quality ... to meet a deadline imposed by political rationales rather than technical realities. — Union of Concerned Scientists report 
  
 The finding dovetails with a July 6 Times article about a GMD flight test held in January. The Times revealed that a crucial component stopped working during the test, causing an interceptor to fly far off course. The U.S. Missile Defense Agency and two of its lead contractors nevertheless issued news releases that pronounced the test a success, with no mention of the malfunction. 
  
 Asked for comment on the report, agency spokesman Chris Johnson said the National Missile Defense Act of 1999 called for deploying an effective system “as soon as was technologically possible.” 
  
 He added: “This rapid deployment was a driving factor in delivering a ground-based interceptor capability with reliability challenges.” The agency is trying to make the system more reliable while staying “on track” to expand the fleet of interceptors, Johnson said. 
  
 The Union of Concerned Scientists was formed in 1969 by students and faculty at MIT to resist what they saw as the government’s misuse of science and technology for military aims. 
  
 In the 1980s, the group opposed President Reagan’s Strategic Defense Initiative, the proposed space-based anti-missile system known as “Star Wars.” No such system was ever deployed, but efforts to create a missile shield continued. The GMD system was one of the results. 
  
 The report’s lead author is Laura Grego, a Caltech-trained physicist who is a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. The coauthors are physicists David Wright, also with the group, and George N. Lewis, a visiting scholar at Cornell University who gained attention for challenging the claimed success rate of rockets launched by Israel to intercept Iraqi missiles during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
  
 The 60-page report, “Shielded from Oversight: The Disastrous U.S. Approach to Strategic Missile Defense,” traces GMD’s problems to President George W. Bush’s decision to make the system operational in 2004 before the highly complex interceptors had been adequately tested. 
  
 The report said that the Obama administration “has continued a similarly lax approach to missile defense.” 
  
 For instance, the administration has kept in place Bush’s decision exempting the Missile Defense Agency from standard Defense Department acquisition and testing procedures. 
  
 With bipartisan support in Congress, Obama has directed the agency to expand the GMD fleet—despite its technical shortcomings—from the present 30 interceptors to a total of 44 by the end of next year. 
  
 “Congress and the administration should halt the deployment of additional interceptors until all known flaws have been eliminated from those additional interceptors and a testing program shows they are effective and reliable,” the report says. 
  
 The physicists write that “the continued development of the GMD system without adequate oversight and accountability, and the continued fielding of interceptors without adequate testing, means the system is not even on a path to achieving a useful ability to intercept ballistic missiles.” 
  
 Boeing Co. is the Pentagon’s prime contractor for GMD. The interceptors are built by Raytheon Co. The component that malfunctioned during the January flight test, called a divert thruster, is manufactured by Aerojet Rocketdyne Inc. 
  
 david.willman@latimes.com 
  
 Twitter: @dwillmannews 
  
 MORE ON MISSILE DEFENSE |||||