One of three people facing drug charges in the investigation into Philip Seymour Hoffman's death had the Oscar-winning actor's contact information stored in his cellphone, a law-enforcement official said. 
  
 Robert Vineberg, 57 years old, was indicted on a single felony count of possession of a controlled substance on Wednesday evening. The case was adjourned to Supreme Court on Feb. 14. Mr. Vineberg, who was not required to enter a... ||||| Three cell phones containing Philip Seymour Hoffman’s number were found in the building where cops made four drug arrests, but it’s unclear whether any of the suspects are tied to the actor’s fatal supply of heroin. 
  
 At least one of the phones found at a rundown building at 302 Mott St. belonged to alleged heroin peddler Robert Vineberg, a struggling jazz musician who was busted Tuesday, sources told the Daily News. 
  
 He was indicted Wednesday for felony possession of heroin with intent to sell, but prosecutors stopped short of linking him to the heroin that killed Hoffman. 
  
 “There’s a very active ongoing investigation into who sold it,” a source with knowledge of the probe told The News. 
  
 Max Rosenblum (right) is arraigned on cocaine possession and was one of the four collared in probe over who sold heroin to Philip Seymour Hoffman. (Steven Hirsch) 
  
 Hoffman was tied to Vineberg, not only by cell phone, but by the suspect’s stepdaughter, Christina Soto, who said the men had known each other for several months. 
  
 “He said he hasn’t seen Hoffman since November,” said Soto, recalling a chat she had with Vineberg. “He was very upset. He said, ‘I wish he would have called me because I could have made sure if he was going to do something, someone was going to be there and he was going to be OK.’ ” 
  
 Soto said she spoke to her 57-year-old stepdad just hours before Vineberg and three other people were hauled away in handcuffs Tuesday night. 
  
 Juliana Luchkiw, caught in Hoffman heroin probe, was charged with possession of marijuana and cocaine. (Steven Hirsch) 
  
 “My father thought highly of him,” Soto, 33, who lives near Allentown, Pa., said of Hoffman. “A great man.” 
  
 But when asked specifically if Vineberg sold Hoffman heroin, the stepdaughter clammed up. 
  
 “That’s my dad,” Soto said. “He got into this because right now he couldn’t find any work — anything. This is the only thing he could think of. He couldn’t even find work washing dishes.” 
  
 Phillip Seymour Hoffman died Sunday of an apparent drug overdose. He was found with a needle in his arm. (VICTORIA WILL/INVISION/AP) 
  
 Vineberg, who faces 25 years in prison if convicted, made his living playing the saxophone under the name Robert Aaron with everyone from David Bowie and Paul Simon to Wyclef Jean, Tom Jones and the late Amy Winehouse. 
  
 Soto said he turned to selling drugs when the gigs began drying up. This was his first arrest. 
  
 His niece Asia Esterak, 32, a filmmaker in Los Angeles, called her uncle a “cool dude.” 
  
 Max Rosenblum and girlfriend Juliana Luchkiw were at 302 Mott St. when cops raided Robert Vineberg's apartment. (Instagram) 
  
 “I knew my uncle struggled with heroin off and on his whole life, but I thought he was past that,” Esterak said. “I can’t picture him selling drugs unless he was in dire straits.” 
  
 Thomas Cushman, 48, was the only one of the suspects who didn’t live in the building on Mott St. He lives in the basement of the same Brooklyn brownstone his ex-wife calls home. 
  
 “This is the first I’ve heard of it,” the clearly shaken woman told The News. She declined to give her name. 
  
 Max Rosenblum and girlfriend Juliana Luchkiw were not found to have ties to Hoffman, according to sources. (Facebook) 
  
 The Manhattan district attorney’s office declined to prosecute Cushman, saying he was at the building — but not linked to drugs. 
  
 “I was visiting,” he said, sporting a blackened left eye he blamed on cops. “I had nothing to do with it.” 
  
 The two others busted were Max Rosenblum and live-in girlfriend, Juliana Luchkiw, both 22. Luchkiw is the daughter of a New Jersey attorney and is studying fine arts and liberal arts at Parsons the New School for Design. 
  
 Robert Vineberg, also known as Robert Aaron, was a struggling jazz musician before he turned to drug dealing, his stepdaughter Christina Soto says. (Facebook) 
  
 “She was in the wrong place at the wrong time,” said her attorney, Stephen Turano. 
  
 He said she was charged with possession of marijuana, a violation, and misdemeanor cocaine possession. Turano added that it was her neighbor, Vineberg, who was accused of heroin possession. Officials said Rosenblum — who has two prior drug collars — was indicted on misdemeanor cocaine possession. 
  
 Vineberg, Luchkiw and Rosenblum were ordered held without bail late Wednesday. 
  
 Robert Vineberg was arrested in connection to the drug-related death of actor Philip Seymour Hoffman. (robert aaron/facebook) 
  
 “Just for the record, this case and the charges against Mr. Vineberg have absolutely nothing to do with the death of Philip Seymour Hoffman,” his lawyer Edward Kratt said. “I hope that the district attorney will not use Mr. Vineberg as a scapegoat in that unfortunate situation.” 
  
 The couple’s lack of bail appeared unusual since they were hit with misdemeanors. 
  
 Hoffman, 46, was found dead Sunday in a T-shirt and shorts and with 70 baggies of heroin in his $10,000-a-month West Village apartment. The medical examiner’s office said Wednesday results of his autopsy were inconclusive. A needle was stuck in his arm. 
  
 Under the name Robert Aaron, Vineberg has performed with David Bowie, Paul Simon, Wyclef Jean, Tom Jones and the late Amy Winehouse. (Facebook) 
  
 A confidential informant with three drug arrests on his record led investigators to the Mott St. address and gave police Vineberg’s name as Hoffman’s supplier, a source said. 
  
 “I have some information,” the informant told a housing cop. 
  
 Of the four people arrested, only Vineberg had ties to Hoffman, the source said. 
  
 The building at 302 Mott St. where police arrested four suspects in probe to find who sold Philip Seymour Hoffman heroin. (Alec Tabak/for New York Daily News) 
  
 Hoffman made six withdrawals from an ATM on Greenwich St. the night before he was found dead. None of the $1,200 was found in his apartment. 
  
 Neighbors were shocked by the arrest of Vineberg, who had a recording studio in the building. 
  
 “He used to play ‘My Funny Valentine’ at 3 a.m.,” a neighbor said. 
  
 A memorial for Oscar-winning actor Philip Seymour Hoffman outside the building where his body was discovered on Sunday. (Alex Rud) 
  
 Some of the baggies found in Hoffman’s apartment had “Ace of Spades” written on them, sources said. Others were stamped “Ace of Hearts.” 
  
 Vineberg was arrested in Apt. 21, where cops found 27 packets of heroin labeled “Red Bull” and 19 branded “Black List.” A police source said that’s where the drugs were sold. 
  
 Vineberg lives in Apt. 38, where police found 250 packages of heroin labeled “Red Bull” and eight unspecified pills. 
  
 Michelle Williams leaves the home of Mimi O'Donnell, longtime girlfriend of Philip Seymour Hoffman, Wednesday. (Jeff Bachner/for New York Daily News) 
  
 Hoffman had been estranged from Mimi O’Donnell, his longtime partner and mother of their three children. Since his death a steady stream of celebrity friends have come by her Jane St. apartment to console her. Actress Michelle Williams, who lost her lover Heath Ledger to a drug overdose, showed up Wednesday. So did actress Catherine Keener. 
  
 A private funeral has been arranged for Friday. Plans are underway for a memorial service later in the month. Three hundred people attended a vigil Wednesday night for Hoffman at the Labyrinth Theater Company, where he was the former artistic director. 
  
 “I was lucky to get to see him on stage,” said Rachel Falcone, 29, of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. “It was beautiful. He had a lot of work left to do.” 
  
 With Rich Schapiro, Caitlin Nolan and Shayna Jacobs 
  
 rparascandola@nydailynews.com 
  
 Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails privacy policy Thanks for subscribing! ||||| Several suspects were arrested at a Manhattan building as investigators tried to determine whether they sold drugs to actor Philip Seymour Hoffman, who was found dead of an apparent overdose. Brynn Gingras reports. (Published Thursday, Feb. 6, 2014) 
  
 Several suspects were arrested on drug charges at a Manhattan building as investigators tried to determine whether they sold heroin to actor Philip Seymour Hoffman, who was found dead of an apparent overdose. 
  
 Two law enforcement sources said Hoffman's phone number was found on the cell phone of one of the suspects. 
  
 Three suspects -- Robert Vineberg, 57, Max Rosenblum and Juliana Luchkiw, both 22 -- were arrested on drug charges Tuesday after police searched three apartments in the Mott Street building and allegedly found about 300 bags of heroin stamped "Red Bull" and "Black List," along with three small bags of cocaine and some unidentified pills, according to NBC News. 
  
 A fourth suspect initially named by sources is not being charged because he does not live in the building and investigators cannot link him to the case, sources said. 
  
 Philip Seymour Hoffman: Life & Times 
  
 All three suspects appeared before a judge Wednesday and entered not guilty pleas through their lawyers. They're being held until their next court appearance. 
  
 Luchkiw's lawyer, Stephen Turano, said his client had no relationship with Hoffman and that she was "in the wrong place at the wrong time." He said he believes the large amounts of recovered heroin were found in the other apartments. 
  
 Rosenblum and Luchkiw are a couple and live in the same apartment. Turano said only small amounts of cocaine and marijuana were recovered from their apartment, not heroin. 
  
 Police are looking into whether the suspects supplied drugs to Hoffman, who was found dead in the bathroom of his West Village apartment Sunday with a syringe in his arm, sources say. The Oscar-winning actor had been dead several hours when he was found by a friend and is suspected to have died of an overdose. 
  
 Actor's Death Sheds Light on New Heroin Wave 
  
 The death of Phiilip Seymour Hoffman is shedding light on the new wave of heroin, the power of addiction, and the boom in the drug's popularity. Marc Santia reports. (Published Tuesday, Feb. 4, 2014) 
  
 The medical examiner said Wednesday that the autopsy was inconclusive as to the cause and manner of death. Authorities are awaiting further test results, including toxicology. 
  
 Dozens of bags of heroin were found in Hoffman's apartment, along with prescription drugs and a bag of white powder police were testing for cocaine. Some of the heroin found there was stamped "Ace of Spades." 
  
 Hoffman's last known contacts on Saturday night were with his longtime girlfriend around 8 p.m., and a screenwriter friend about 9 p.m., officials said. 
  
 Sources say bank records show Hoffman withdrew $1,200 from an ATM at a supermarket near his West Village home between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m. the night he died. A witness told investigators he saw Hoffman speaking with two men wearing messenger bags as he withdrew the money. 
  
 Philip Seymour Hoffman Found Dead: NYPD 
  
 Oscar-winning actor Philip Seymour Hoffman was found dead Sunday in his Manhattan apartment of an apparent heroin overdose, law enforcement sources said. Ida Siegal reports. (Published Monday, Feb. 3, 2014) 
  
 Detectives are looking into whether he bought the drugs the night of his death. 
  
 Hoffman, who was 46 and had three children, won the Oscar for Best Actor in 2006 for his starring role in "Capote." He was nominated for Oscars three other times, including for 2012's "The Master," and he earned two Tony nominations for his work on Broadway. 
  
 Hoffman spoke over the years about past struggles with drug addiction. After 23 years sober, he admitted in interviews last year to falling off the wagon and developing a heroin problem that led to a stint in rehab. 
  
 --Katy Tur contributed to this story ||||| Philip Seymour Hoffman Death Drug Suspects Arraigned 
  
 breaking news 
  
 Three of the four people arrested in what cops believe may be a link to's death were in court, and have been arraigned on drug charges.-- the man a police informant claims sold drugs to him and Hoffman -- pled not guilty to felony possession of heroin with an intent to sell.Vineberg's attorney, Ed Kratt, tells TMZ, "these charges have NOTHING to do with the death of Philip Seymour Hoffman."andare NOT charged with heroin possession. Instead, prosecutors have charged them with 1 count each for possession of cocaine ... a misdemeanor.We spoke with the lawyer for Juliana who pled not guilty. The lawyer says his client has never met Hoffman.A fourth man-- was arrested but not charged with a crime due to lack of evidence.TMZ broke the story .... an informant who triggered the bust has told cops ... Vineberg was Hoffman's main dealer, and the actor came by his apartment twice a week to score dozens of bags of heroin. |||||