The May 21, 2012, issue of Newsweek (used with permission of the publisher). 
  
 "‘Let the games begin," Tina Brown said last week after Time Magazine released its controversial breastfeeding cover. 
  
 Brown, whose tenure as editor at Newsweek has seen an array of controversial covers, will respond with the above, pegged to Andrew Sullivan's piece on Obama's support for same-sex marriage: "The First Gay President." 
  
 (Also on POLITICO: 20 gay rights milestones) 
  
 The magazine is currently available on iTunes. 
  
 UPDATE: Newsweek forwards the following preview for Sullivan's piece: 
  
 It’s easy to write off President Obama’s announcement of his support for gay marriage as a political ploy during an election year. But don’t believe the cynics. Andrew Sullivan argues that this announcement has been in the making for years. “When you step back a little and assess the record of Obama on gay rights, you see, in fact, that this was not an aberration. It was an inevitable culmination of three years of work.” And President Obama has much in common with the gay community. “He had to discover his black identity and then reconcile it with his white family, just as gays discover their homosexual identity and then have to reconcile it with their heterosexual family,” Sullivan writes. 
  
 Read more about: Barack Obama, Newsweek, Gay Marriage ||||| [Re-posted from last night.] 
  
 Below is a remarkable document. It's a memo circulated by Jan van Lohuizen, a highly respected Republican pollster, (he polled for George W. Bush in 2004), to various leading Republican operatives, candidates and insiders. It's on the fast-shifting poll data on marriage equality and gay rights in general, and how that should affect Republican policy and language. And the pollster's conclusion is clear: if the GOP keeps up its current rhetoric and positions on gays and lesbians, it is in danger of marginalizing itself to irrelevance or worse. 
  
 Read the bluntness of this. This is the GOP establishment talking to itself. And the Republican pollster who arguably knows more about the politics of the gay issue than anyone else (how else to explain the Ohio campaign of 2004?) is advising them in no uncertain terms that they need to evolve and fast, if they're not going to damage their brand for an entire generation: 
  
 Yep, it's a classic "talking points memo": 
  
  
  
 The last paragraph is, to my mind, the most remarkable. It's advising Republican candidates to emphasize the conservative nature of gay marriage, to say how it encourages personal responsibility, commitment, stability and family values. It uses Dick Cheney's formula (which was for a couple of years, the motto of this blog) that "freedom means freedom for everyone." And it uses David Cameron's argument that you can be for gay marriage because you are a conservative. 
  
 And the walls came tumbling down. 
  
 (More legible transcript of the memo below:) ||||| Andrew Sullivan On Obama's Support Of Gay Marriage 
  
 AUDIE CORNISH, HOST: 
  
 For reaction now, we turn to writer and political blogger Andrew Sullivan. He is gay and married, and for years has been a leading advocate of same-sex marriage. He's the editor of the blog "The Dish" at The Daily Beast website. And, Andrew, I take it from what I've seen on your blog this afternoon you have mixed feelings about this development. 
  
 ANDREW SULLIVAN: I did have mixed feelings, but I thought beforehand that this is a state issue. The president's role in this is really circumscribed. One interview doesn't make a difference. And then I watched the interview and the tears flooded. There is something about hearing your president affirm your humanity that you don't know what effect it has until you hear it. And I think of all those gay Americans over the centuries who never heard that, never believed it could happen. And I have to say I'm immensely proud of this president for doing what he did. 
  
 I think he let go of fear today, the fear that somehow by embracing this natural, obvious and I would say conservative development he was sometimes - somehow embracing political calamity. He wasn't, he isn't, he won't. And exchanging fears for hope on this and affirming what we all know who have met him and seen him that he thinks of gay people exactly as he thinks of straight people, as human beings and Americans first. That's a great moment. 
  
 CORNISH: You called his past positions on same-sex marriage excruciating. In fact, you called them non-positions. Talk a little about that. 
  
 SULLIVAN: Well, there were. And I think it was getting increasingly absurd because he kept saying he believes in full equality for gay couples but not marriage. But you can't have full equality without marriage. Now, I think he had issues with marriage as a religious institution with its religious connotations. But I think after New York where the religious protections and protections for religious freedom were very strong, as I think they should be, I think he felt more comfortable about this. And coming after last night's really devastating defeat in North Carolina, this feels like a salve on a really deep wound. 
  
 CORNISH: It's also been noted that a lot of the big-money donors in the Democratic Party are gay and lesbian. And you've suggested that maybe this all just has to do with money. And do you still feel that way? 
  
 SULLIVAN: I told you how I feel. Analytically, I do think, look, we're talking about politics here. And I do think that with Wall Street being less generous than they were in 2008, gay donors and gay support is actually critical to fundraising. And I think many leading gay activists just told the White House quite clearly that if you were not do to this, then their support would not be forthcoming, especially after he declined to enforce an executive order banning discrimination against homosexuals in federal contracting. 
  
 So - but I didn't see that today. I mean, I'll see the whole thing tonight. I didn't see it today. I saw today the man I watched for five years now. And that is whom I heard in, as long ago as 2007, tell the mother of a gay son, I want your son to be equal and to have every right that a heterosexual has. I think getting past the M-word for him was a struggle. I don't he's alone in this. And I don't think it's crazy for people to feel this way. But I think he's evolved as Americans have evolved, suddenly rather quickly. And I think this is how it happens, suddenly rather quickly. What seemed unthinkable becomes obviously right. 
  
 CORNISH: Writer and blogger Andrew Sullivan, his blog "The Dish" is at The Daily Beast website. Andrew Sullivan, thank you for speaking with us. 
  
 SULLIVAN: You're so welcome. Thank you. 
  
 Copyright © 2012 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. 
  
 NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. |||||