A newlywed couple from the U.K. is celebrating after learning that an experimental treatment they took a chance on has erased all signs of cancer in the husband. 
  
 Mike Brandon was found to have leukemia one month after proposing to Kate Brandon in 2014. A bone marrow transplant put Brandon in remission but last year the now newlywed couple were devastated to find that the cancer had returned, according to their online fundraising site. 
  
 Kate and Mike Brandon came to the U.S. in order to take part in an experimental cancer treatment aimed at reviving the immune system to fight cancer through modifying the body's own T-cells to attack cancer cells. The couple began the cancer-fighting treatments soon after they were married. 
  
 "When my [leukemia] relapsed in March, we were told that it was time to plan our last days together, but Kate point blank refused," Mike Brandon wrote on the couple's GoFundMe page. "We would fight on, and we have." 
  
 In an effort to find a new kind of treatment they started raising funds and eventually raised more than 450,000 British pounds or nearly $600,000 to go to the Abramson Cancer Center at the University of Pennsylvania Health System, which confirmed Brandon was a patient there. 
  
 In an online update Kate Brandon said that her husband had suffered severe side effects from the experimental t-cell treatment. 
  
 "Mikes has been in intensive care for over a week but I am pleased to say he is finally now back on the wonderful Oncology Unit," she said. "We were told that paradoxically the sicker that people become during this treatment, the more likely they are to have a good outcome." 
  
 After the severe illness, the couple updated with positive news: new tests showed no sign of cancer. 
  
 "Mike's initial bone marrow biopsy test has come back clear! Prior to starting the therapy Mike’s bone marrow was almost completely made up of [leukemia] cells," the couple wrote on their page. "28 days later there were none." 
  
 The couple thanked those that helped them get treatment, but said there is still much to be done before Mike Brandon is out of the woods. 
  
 "This is a great first step showing that the T-Cell therapy is doing exactly what we hoped it would," they wrote. "We still have quite some distance to go in our journey, but we are currently filled with huge relief to have cleared such an enormous hurdle." ||||| “Prior to starting the therapy Mike’s bone marrow was almost completely made up of leukaemia cells,” said Kate. “28 days later there were none.” 
  
 She recently shared her husband’s progress on their ‘Donate4Mike’ Facebook page , writing that Mike’s initial bone marrow biopsy test had come back clear. 
  
 Earlier this year Kate Brandon, 33, from Bristol, crowdfunded a staggering £400,000 in less than a week so her husband Mike, 31, could travel to the US for CAR T-Cell therapy. 
  
 A woman who raised £400,000 to send her husband for lifesaving leukaemia treatment in the US has shared some “wonderful news” after an “agonising” three months. 
  
 Mike was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in 2014, just one month after he proposed to Kate. 
  
 Due to it being a rare type of leukaemia, Mike required a stem cell transplant to stand any chance of surviving, so he turned to The Anthony Nolan Trust for help. 
  
 His wife Kate launched the #Shake4Mike campaign encouraging members of the public to register as stem cell donors with The Anthony Nolan Trust. 
  
 Through the campaign Mike was able to find a stem cell match and on his 30th birthday, he received a lifesaving transplant. 
  
 Following the treatment, Mike underwent more than 20 grueling bone marrow biopsies, contracted pneumonia and had five further infusions of stem cells and lymphocyte cells from his donor. 
  
 All seemed to be going well until tragedy struck in February this year when Mike’s white blood cell count plummeted and he began to suffer tightness and pains in his chest. 
  
 In March, the couple received the devastating news that Mike’s leukaemia had returned - and it was worse than ever. 
  
 Kate explained that this time, Mike had very little hope for a full recovery and, as such, she issued a heartfelt plea for strangers to help her raise £400,000 on crowdfunding platform GoFundMe so they could seek treatment abroad. 
  
 “His only chance is to access this new research trial based in America which is CAR T-Cell therapy,” she said at the time. 
  
 After kind strangers rallied together to help raise money for the couple, Mike secured a place on a medical trial for CAR T-Cell Therapy at the University of Pennsylvania’s Abramson Cancer Centre, USA. 
  
 “CAR T-cell therapy has really high response rates of complete remission,” said Kate. “To me it seems like more of a cure. We can’t go down without a fight.” 
  
 In a recent update on the ‘Donate4Mike’ Facebook page, Kate said that her husband’s progress was “a great first step” showing that the T-Cell therapy is doing exactly what they hoped it would. 
  
 Speaking to The Huffington Post UK, Kate said: “We are still in Philly while Mike is recovering from the aftermath of the T-Cell therapy, it has been a completely exhausting six weeks. 
  
 “I am obviously elated at his first biopsy results but know that we have many more biopsy hurdles to pass before I can believe we are truly out the other side of this. 
  
 “We are completely overwhelmed by everything, this has by far been our toughest battle yet. I cannot wait to get our boy home!” 
  
 Kelsea Little, spokesperson for GoFundMe.com, said she is “delighted” to hear that Mike is making good progress with his treatment. |||||