The Bees took the lead midway through the first half as Akinde rose highest to nod home James Pearson's whipped cross.
Jerome Binnom-Williams was brought down by Andy Yiadom just after the restart but Lloyd James saw his resulting penalty well saved by Jamie Stephens.
Sam Togwell's deflected drive and Akinde's 17th league goal of the season completed the win for Barnet.
The result leaves Leyton Orient two points off the League Two play-offs in 11th position whilst Barnet sit comfortably in 14th.
Barnet manager Martin Allen told BBC Radio London:
Media playback is not supported on this device
"I thought it was an excellent team performance from start to finish.
"With Orient playing for the playoffs, with the full backing from a lot of supporters, I thought we dominated the game from the start to the finish.
"We fully deserved the win."
Leyton Orient manager Kevin Nolan told BBC Radio London:
Media playback is not supported on this device
"Very disappointing, I think we've gone away from what we were about when I first came in.
"The goals we're conceding now are very, very sloppy goals.
"I think at this moment in time we're playing with a fear, and I think it's showing which is disappointing."
Match ends, Barnet 3, Leyton Orient 0.
Second Half ends, Barnet 3, Leyton Orient 0.
Andy Yiadom (Barnet) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Josh Koroma (Leyton Orient).
Attempt missed. Armand Gnanduillet (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Corner,  Barnet. Conceded by Jerome Binnom-Williams.
Corner,  Barnet. Conceded by Josh Koroma.
Foul by John Akinde (Barnet).
(Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt missed. Armand Gnanduillet (Leyton Orient) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right.
Attempt saved. Josh Koroma (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Barnet. Sam Muggleton replaces Luke Gambin.
Attempt missed. Lloyd James (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is too high from a direct free kick.
Foul by James Pearson (Barnet).
Josh Koroma (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Substitution, Barnet. Matt Stevens replaces Curtis Weston.
Attempt missed. James Pearson (Barnet) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
Corner,  Leyton Orient. Conceded by Bira Dembélé.
Foul by John Akinde (Barnet).
Nicky Hunt (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Ollie Palmer (Leyton Orient) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Sam Togwell (Barnet) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ollie Palmer (Leyton Orient).
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Armand Gnanduillet replaces Jay Simpson.
Attempt missed. Luke Gambin (Barnet) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right.
Attempt missed. Ollie Palmer (Leyton Orient) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Substitution, Barnet. Fumnaya Shomotun replaces Michael Gash.
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Josh Koroma replaces Kevin Nolan.
Corner,  Barnet. Conceded by Jerome Binnom-Williams.
Foul by John Akinde (Barnet).
Shaun Brisley (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Goal!  Barnet 3, Leyton Orient 0. John Akinde (Barnet) header from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Curtis Weston.
Sam Togwell (Barnet) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Sam Togwell (Barnet).
Ollie Palmer (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Corner,  Barnet. Conceded by Peter Ramage.
Attempt blocked. Lloyd James (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Corner,  Leyton Orient. Conceded by Elliot Johnson.
Goal!  Barnet 2, Leyton Orient 0. Sam Togwell (Barnet) right footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Curtis Weston.
Attempt missed. Nigel Atangana (Leyton Orient) header from very close range is just a bit too high.