In a disturbing discovery, the bodies of 11 deceased infants were found in the ceiling of a shuttered funeral home in Detroit on Friday. 
  
 The bodies were found in bags, most in a cardboard box and others stuffed in a small coffin, police said. 
  
 The discovery was made after the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA), which licenses funeral homes, was sent an anonymous letter Friday afternoon, which described exactly where the remains could be found. 
  
 Google Maps 
  
 "It's just the callousness of the operators, the owners, the employees of the funeral home [that stands out]," Detroit Police Department Lt. Brian Bowser said at a press conference Friday night. "The inspectors from LARA located the boxes, or the one box and the casket, and they subsequently called 911. The police responded, they removed the box and the casket from the false ceiling, or the lowered ceiling, and they opened them up and obviously they discovered the remains." 
  
 "They were actually in a cardboard box, nine of the 11 -- they're very small remains," Bowser continued. "They were in a cardboard box stuffed away from a stairwell." 
  
 Bowser said they have names of some of the deceased infants and the medical examiner will conduct an investigation. 
  
 The Cantrell Funeral Home was shut down in April due to a number of disturbing violations, according to Detroit ABC affiliate WXYZ. 
  
 WXYZ 
  
 Violations included dirty floors, peeling paint, mold, improper storage of embalmed bodies, with one in "advanced stage of decomposition," and fraud, deceit, or dishonesty, incompetence, and gross negligence in the practice of mortuary science." LARA called the violations "deplorable" at the time. 
  
 The Detroit Police Department will continue to investigate the discovery Friday and had cadaver dogs searching the property, Bowser said. 
  
 "Obviously we have to find out what happened, and why it happened," he said. 
  
 LARA released a statement to WXYZ explaining the discovery and the April violations. 
  
 WXYZ 
  
 "Based on a new complaint, LARA investigators today searched Cantrell Funeral Home and found the decomposing bodies of 11 infants," the statement said. "We then immediately contacted local authorities. In April, LARA suspended the mortuary licenses of both the home and its manager Jameca LaJoyce Boone for many violations including the improper storage of decomposing bodies of adult and infants. That suspension order remains in effect as does our investigation. We will use the evidence gathered today to add to our open investigation and will continue to work with local law enforcement as this case proceeds." 
  
 The property has been sold and the new owners plan to turn it into a community center, according to WXYZ. ||||| DETROIT (WXYZ) - The Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs shut down Cantrell Funeral Home in Detroit, located at 10400 Mack Ave. 
  
 Inspectors found "deplorable, unsanitary conditions" and other violations that included: 
  
 After first being denied entry to conduct an inspection, an inspector found an unclean and unsanitary embalming room, with peeling and chipping paint, water stained walls, dirty floors, and stained protective gear. 
  
 Improper storage of embalmed bodies found on April 10, 2018, in an unrefrigerated garage since November and December 2017; a third body was kept from January 9, 2018 until April 17, 2018, when it was cremated. 
  
 Improper storage of embalmed bodies found on April 25, 2018 with two bodies in an advanced stage of decomposition, covered in what appeared to be mold and in the establishment’s possession since January and February 2018, and a third body with the facial area covered in unknown fluids. 
  
 Operating with an expired prepaid funeral and cemetery sales registration and failing to assign its existing prepaid contracts to another registrant or to cancel its prepaid contracts and issue refunds of the contracts to the contract buyers. 
  
 Continuing to engage in activities requiring a registration under the Prepaid Act, including the sale of at least three prepaid contracts. 
  
 Failure to deposit at least $21,574 received for prepaid funeral goods or services related to 13 prepaid funeral contracts (a preliminary assessment in this ongoing investigation). 
  
 Failure to deposit monies with an authorized escrow agent within 30 days of receipt, under the Prepaid Act. 
  
 Fraud, deceit, or dishonesty, incompetence, and gross negligence in the practice of mortuary science. 
  
 “Michigan residents trust funeral home directors, owners, and their establishments to follow the law, especially when dealing with the death of a loved one,” said CSCL Director Julia Dale. “We will continue to aggressively hold every funeral home in Michigan to the highest standards of public health and safety when providing final arrangements.” 
  
 LARA says Cantrell Funeral Home has 60 days to either assign its existing prepaid contracts to another person registered under the Prepaid Act and notify the Department and contract buyers of the assignment within 30 days of the assignment, or to cancel the contracts and issue refunds to each contract buyer, providing copies of refund checks and correspondence to each contract buyer to the Department within 90 days, unless the Department modifies, vacates, or extends the terms of the Order. ||||| The bodies of 11 infants and stillborns were found in the ceiling of a former funeral home on Detroit's east side Friday evening, according to Detroit Police. It happened at the former Cantrell Funeral Home on Mack Ave. 
  
 Officers say the remains were found in boxes and two small caskets. 
  
 The property's current owner, Naveed Syed, says he called police after making the shocking discovery. 
  
 It's not clear how long the remains had been there, but he says he was told at least one of the bodies had been there since 2009. Investigators are now working to identify the remains. 
  
 The Cantrell Funeral home was shut down this past April due to several violations and "deplorable, unsanitary conditions." Investigators found bodies not stored properly, including at least least two that reportedly appeared to be covered in mold. 
  
 Syed is now converting the former funeral home into a community center. 
  
 The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA) is also investigating this disturbing case. 
  
 LARA reported Cantrell Funeral Home had 60 days to either assign its existing prepaid contracts to another person registered under the Prepaid Act and notify the Department and contract buyers of the assignment within 30 days of the assignment. 
  
 The funeral home's other option was to cancel their current contracts and issue refunds to each contract buyer, providing copies of refund checks and correspondence to each contract buyer to the Department within 90 days, unless the Department modifies, vacates, or extends the terms of the Order. 
  
 A spokesperson from LARA has released this statement regarding their investigation: 
  
 “Based on a new complaint, LARA investigators today searched Cantrell Funeral Home and found the decomposing bodies of 11 infants. We then immediately contacted local authorities. In April, LARA suspended the mortuary licenses of both the home and its manager Jameca LaJoyce Boone for many violations including the improper storage of decomposing bodies of adult and infants. That suspension order remains in effect as does our investigation. We will use the evidence gathered today to add to our open investigation and will continue to work with local law enforcement as this case proceeds.” 
  
 Stay with Action News for updates. |||||