CLOSE Skip in Skip x Embed x Share Usain Bolt will forfeit an Olympic gold won at the 2008 Beijing Games because his Jamaican teammate in 4x100 Nesta Carter was caught doping. USA TODAY Sports 
  
 In a file photo from 2008, Jamaica's 4x100 gold medal winning relay team after the race. (l-r) Usain Bolt, Michael Frater, Asafa Powell, and Nesta Carter. (Photo: Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY Sports) 
  
 Usain Bolt made history as the first sprinter to sweep three gold medals at three Olympic Games. Now he's losing a piece of his historic hardware. 
  
 Bolt will forfeit an Olympic gold won at the 2008 Beijing Games because his Jamaican teammate was caught doping. 
  
 Nesta Carter was disqualified from the 4x100 relay that won gold in Beijing after a reanalysis of his sample found the banned substance methylhexaneamine, the IOC announced Wednesday. 
  
 The IOC has retested hundreds of samples stored from the 2008 and 2012 Olympics to possibly detect banned substances that were not originally identified at the time of the Games. Testing has improved since London to detect long-term metabolites. 
  
 Carter, 31, ran in the prelims and the final in Beijing. 
  
 The sanction against Carter wasn't surprising. The Guardian reported last year that Bolt could lose a medal. At the time he said it would be "heartbreaking" but that it's "just one of those things." 
  
 RELATED COVERAGE: 
  
 "Things happen in life, so when it’s confirmed or whatever, if I need to give back my gold medal I’d have to give it back, it’s not a problem for me," Bolt said last June, according to a report in the Guardian. 
  
 Carter also won gold as part of the 4x100 relay in London. 
  
 In Beijing, Trinidad and Tobago took silver in the 4x100 followed by Japan and Brazil. The American men dropped the baton in the prelims. Bolt ran the third leg of the relay with Asafa Power the anchor as Jamaica set a world record. 
  
 The Jamaican National Olympic Committee was told in May of 2016 that Carter's B sample would be tested. In October, Carter's counsel sent a statement to the IOC that said the athlete had been using Cell Tech and Nitro Tech to help with recovery and to build up muscle mass during 2008. Carter said he had given several samples for doping control while he was taking the substances leading up to the 2008 Olympics and had never tested positive. 
  
 In its decision, the IOC disciplinary commission said that Carter's claim of "unknowing ingestion of a supplement would not and could not prevent the finding of the commission of an anti-doping rule violation." 
  
 The commission also said that Carter did not provide any real evidence that the supplements he declared on his Doping Control Form might have been the likely source. 
  
 "On the contrary, the fact that the Athlete used such supplements regularly and that this did not lead to other problems, supports the likelihood that the source of the prohibited substance was not the supplements mentioned by the Athlete," the decision read. 
  
 Carter, who did not compete in Rio last summer, can appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. 
  
 Russian Tatyana Lebedeva, an Olympic silver medalist in the women's triple jump and long jump in 2008, was also disqualified and stripped of her medals for doping. Her samples were also reanalyzed, the IOC said. 
  
 PHOTOS: TRACK AND FIELD IN RIO ||||| Nesta Carter was told of the adverse finding in May - before the Rio Olympics 
  
 Usain Bolt will have to hand back one of his nine Olympic gold medals after Jamaican team-mate Nesta Carter tested positive for a banned substance. 
  
 Carter was part of the Jamaican quartet that won the 4x100m in Beijing in 2008. 
  
 His was one of 454 selected doping samples retested by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) last year, and has been found to contain the banned stimulant methylhexaneamine. 
  
 Bolt, 30, completed an unprecedented 'triple triple' in Rio last summer. 
  
 He won gold in the 100m, 200m and 4x100m relay to add to his successes in the same events in 2008 and 2012. 
  
 Carter, 31, was also part of the squad that won the event in London five years ago and helped Jamaica win at the World Championships in 2011, 2013 and 2015. 
  
 He ran the first leg for Jamaica's 4x100m relay team in Beijing, which also included Michael Frater, Asafa Powell and Bolt. 
  
 The team won in a then-world record of 37.10 seconds, ahead of Trinidad and Tobago and Japan, who could have their medals upgraded. Brazil would then receive bronze. 
  
 The head of the Jamaica Athletics Administrative Association, Dr Warren Blake, said he did not expect the whole team to be penalised: "I didn't rule out he'd be found guilty but my personal opinion is that I'm surprised they'd go that route." 
  
 Carter's lawyer has confirmed that the sprinter will lodge an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport. 
  
 The test and what happened next? 
  
 From left, Powell, Carter, Bolt and Frater celebrate in Beijing 
  
 Carter was tested on the evening of the Beijing final in 2008 but that was found at the time to contain no "adverse analytical finding". 
  
 More than 4,500 tests were carried out at those Games, with nine athletes caught cheating. 
  
 An anomaly was discovered in Carter's submission following the IOC's decision to retest 454 samples from Beijing using the latest scientific analysis methods. 
  
 Carter and the Jamaican National Olympic Committee were told of the adverse finding in May - before the Rio Games - and told his B sample would be tested. 
  
 It was reported by Reuters in June that Carter's A sample had been found to contain methylhexanamine, which has been on the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) prohibited list since 2004. 
  
 It was reclassified in 2011 as a "specified substance", meaning one that is more susceptible to a "credible, non-doping explanation". 
  
 Sold as a nasal decongestant in the United States until 1983, methylhexanamine has been used more recently as an ingredient in dietary supplements. 
  
 Speaking in June, Bolt said the prospect of having to return the gold was "heartbreaking". 
  
 He told the Jamaica Gleaner: "For years you've worked hard to accumulate gold medals and you work hard to be a champion, but it's one of those things. 
  
 "I'm more concerned about the athlete and I hope he gets through it." 
  
 Analysis - 'It takes the shine off Bolt's achievement' 
  
 Britain's two-time Olympic silver medallist Roger Black on BBC Radio 5 live 
  
 It takes the shine off Bolt's achievement. Eight doesn't have the same ring - 'double treble, plus two'. 
  
 It will be really frustrating for him. You can only account for yourself, you cannot account for your team-mates. 
  
 We know it has nothing to do with Usain Bolt - it will not damage his reputation - but it will affect it, take shine off it and he won't be a happy man. 
  
 When I hear stories like this, a part of me does celebrate. If athletes think they have got away with it, then with retrospective testing they can never sleep peacefully. 
  
 It has to be the strongest deterrent the sport now has. Even when athletes retire they can still have their medals taken away. 
  
 "There you go, I'm the greatest," said Bolt after winning what was his ninth Olympic gold as Jamaica triumphed in the 4x100m relay in Rio 
  
 'A massively selfish act' 
  
 Marlon Devonish, 40, was part of the British 4x100m relay team which lost the silver medal at the World Championships in 2003 following Dwain Chambers' failed drugs test. He went on to win Olympic relay gold with Britain at Athens 2004. 
  
 Speaking to BBC Radio 5 live, he said: "With relays you work together, you build a relationship, but you never know what goes on behind closed doors and clearly Carter was taking drugs. 
  
 "Carter has tarnished the team. It's a massively selfish act and I'm sure Bolt and the rest of the team are bitterly disappointed. 
  
 "The relationship between me and Dwain, we get on, we are cool. He apologised to me I and accepted it. Dwain has to live with it for the rest of his life, it was a sincere apology. 
  
 "I was devastated when I found out, but you have to move on." 
  
 Russian senator stripped of titles 
  
 Tatyana Lebedeva is a former vice president of the Russian track federation and a current member of the IAAF's women's committee 
  
 Russia's Tatyana Lebedeva has also been stripped of her Beijing long jump and triple jump silver medals after dehydrochlormethyltestosterone was found in one of her samples. 
  
 The 40-year-old has told Russian news agency Tass that she plans to appeal against the decision to strip her of her medals, adding that she "will always fight to the end". 
  
 Lebedeva has resigned from the executive committee of the World Olympians Association (WOA), the umbrella organisation that represents 148 national associations of former Olympic athletes. 
  
 Now a Russian senator, she won gold in the long jump at the 2004 Athens Games and has two other Olympic medals, won in Sydney and Athens. She retired from competition in 2013. |||||