On 26, Feb 2014 | In Campaign News | By Scouts for Equality 
  
 Scouts for Equality, the national campaign to end discrimination within the Boy Scouts of America, praised Walt Disney World’s decision to end its local support of the Boy Scouts of America’s Central Florida Council. 
  
 “We’re never happy to see Scouting suffer as a result of the BSA’s anti-gay policy, but Disney made the right decision to withhold support until Scouting is fully inclusive,” said Eagle Scout and Scouts for Equality co-founder Zach Wahls. “Scouts for Equality will continue to advocate for a fully inclusive membership policy, to help build a stronger Scouting community that is eligible for the support of Corporate America.” 
  
 Mr. Wahls is the straight son of a lesbian couple. Under the BSA’s current membership policy, parents like Wahls’ are still banned from being a part of their son’s Scouting experience, and gay Eagle Scouts will still be barred from Scouting on their 18th birthday. 
  
 In an e-mail to local members, Central Florida Council Board President Robert Utsey wrote: “We recognize that many Scout Units have received financial support over the last several years from this grant opportunity and are sad to see it go. The National BSA Council has reached out to [Walt Disney World] to try to resolve the situation, however, according to WDW, their views do not currently align with the BSA and they are choosing to discontinue this level of support.” 
  
 Since Scouts for Equality’s inception in 2012, seven major corporate sponsors of the Boy Scouts of America have ended their partnerships with the organization. These sponsors include Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar, Major League Soccer, Merck, Intel, UPS and now Walt Disney World. 
  
 The quintessential Scouting film Follow Me, Boys! was produced by Walt Disney Productions in 1966 and is regularly played every summer at Boy Scout camps across the country. The film was one of the last movies produced by Walt Disney, who died of lung cancer two weeks after Follow Me, Boys! was released. 
  
 The full contents of Mr. Utsey’s email to the Central Florida Council can be found below: 
  
  
  
 Donate to Scouts for Equality and help us build a fully inclusive BSA 
  
 Fellow Scout Leaders & Parents: 
  
 It has recently come to our attention that the grant program titled “Ears to You” provided by Walt Disney World, to their employees, will be discontinued for Scouting volunteers. WDW will no longer recognize volunteer hours with the Scout Council, District or Unit to receive grant funding. 
  
 We recognize that many Scout Units have received financial support over the last several years from this grant opportunity and are sad to see it go. The National BSA Council has reached out to WDW to try to resolve the situation, however, according to WDW, their views do not currently align with the BSA and they are choosing to discontinue this level of support. 
  
 We will continue to keep an open line of communication with them, but at this time, are unable to reverse their decision. If you are a WDW employee and have any concerns or questions about your volunteer service, I encourage you to reach out to your direct supervisor. 
  
 Respectfully Yours, 
  
 Robert Utsey 
  
 Central FL Council Board President 
  
 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 
  
 Central Florida Council 
  
 Wayne Densch Boy Scout Service Center 
  
 1951 South Orange Blossom Trail | 
  
 Apopka, Florida 32703-7747 ||||| Starting in 2015 the Boy Scouts of America's policy banning adult leaders who are gay will cost the organization donations from Walt Disney Co. 
  
 Though Disney doesn't provide money to the Boy Scouts' national or local councils, the Burbank-based company with major theme parks in Anaheim and Orlando provides small grants to local troops and packs, said Deron Smith, a Boy Scouts spokesman. 
  
 "We believe every child deserves the opportunity to be a part of the Scouting experience and we are disappointed in this decision because it will impact our ability to serve kids," Smith said in a statement. 
  
 The grants have been given through a Disney program that would donate money to the Scouts in exchange for volunteer hours completed by its employees. 
  
 Disney did not return calls for comment. 
  
 Until recently, gay people were banned from the Boy Scouts. The restriction on minors was lifted effective Jan. 1, but the group kept the restriction against adult Scout leaders. 
  
 According to the Associated Press, the company's decision was made public after the president of a local Boy Scouts council in Apopka, Fla., sent local troops a memo on Disney's move. 
  
 Robert Utsey's letter was posted on the website for Scouts for Equality, an organization advocating against the ban on gay leaders. Utsey said the National Boy Scouts of America Council had reached out to Disney to try to resolve the situation. 
  
 "However, according to [Walt Disney World], their views do not currently align with the BSA," Utsey said. "We will continue to keep an open line of communication with them, but at this time, are unable to reverse their decision." 
  
 adolfo.flores@latimes.com ||||| LOS ANGELES (AP) — The Walt Disney Company will cut funding to the Boy Scouts of America beginning in 2015 because of a policy that bans gay adult leaders in the organization. 
  
 The Boy Scouts organization is "disappointed" by the decision, which will affect the organization's ability to serve children, Deron Smith, a Boy Scouts spokesman, said in a statement Sunday. Disney does not provide direct funding to the Boy Scouts, but it donates money to some troops in exchange for volunteer hours completed by Disney employees, he said. 
  
 "We believe every child deserves the opportunity to be a part of the Scouting experience and we are disappointed in this decision because it will impact our ability to serve kids," he said. 
  
 David Jefferson, chief spokesman for The Walt Disney Company, did not respond to calls or emails. 
  
 Disney's decision came to light after the president of a local Boy Scout council based in Orlando, Fla., where Disney World is based, sent a memo alerting local troops to the decision. 
  
 The memo was posted on the website of Scouts for Equality, an organization that is critical of the Boy Scouts' policy to ban adult gay troop leaders. 
  
 The Boy Scouts lifted a ban on gay youth last year. |||||