Lord Mayor Arder Carson and US Consul-General Greg Burton were present when the book was opened at city hall.
The body of Olivia Burke, one of the six students killed, was flown back to Ireland on Monday.
The bodies of Eoghan Culligan, Lorcán Miller, Niccolai Schuster and Eimear Walsh, returned to Ireland on Sunday.
The sixth victim, Ashley Donohoe, was buried in California on Saturday.
She was a joint Irish-US citizen and was a cousin of Olivia Burke. A joint funeral for the two young women was held in Sonoma.
Four of the families issued a statement thanking everyone, in Ireland and the US, for their sympathy and support.
"As we leave Berkeley and return home to Ireland with our beloved sons and daughters, Eimear, Eoghan, Lorcan and Niccolai, we would like to thank everyone in America and Ireland for their sympathy and support, which has been a tremendous comfort to us at this tragic time," the families said.
After Saturday's joint funeral for Ms Burke and Ms Donohoe, their families issued a statement through a friend.
"We will fight to make changes so that no family will ever have to go through what we have gone through in the last five days," they said.
"Our daughters and the rest of these students were responsible young adults that were celebrating their friend's 21st birthday in what they felt was a safe environment.
"Unfortunately, that turned tragic through no fault of their own."
Mourners at the funeral heard how the two cousins were kind, fun-loving young women who shared a close bond.
Monsignor Daniel Whelton said that growing up, Olivia and Ashley would dress alike to try to fool their parents into thinking they were twins.
The apartment balcony collapsed during a 21st birthday party in the early hours of Tuesday in the city of Berkeley.
Five of the six people who died were Irish students based in the US as part of a work exchange programme.
Meanwhile, the conditions of two of the people who were injured in the balcony collapse have improved.
Conor Flynn and Jack Halpin are being cared for at the John Muir Medical Centre in Walnut Creek.
Hospital pastor Fr Michael Gillen described the pair as inspirational and said they should make a full recovery.
Investigations continue into why the fourth-floor balcony collapsed.
Engineers say water damage may have caused the structure to give way.
Authorities said 13 people were on the balcony when it collapsed.
The book of condolence can be signed at Belfast City Hall during normal business hours every day this week.