By . Tamara Cohen . PUBLISHED: . 19:59 EST, 25 August 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 19:59 EST, 25 August 2013 . Minister for Welfare Reform Lord Freud said 'We are determined to catch anyone who commits benefit fraud' Fraud investigators have been deployed to clamp down on the £60million a year lost to benefit crimes committed abroad. Ministers promised that fraud would be investigated ‘even if it is thousands of miles away’. They said investigators would act on tip-offs from the public as well as intelligence sharing with other countries. Last year more than 2,000 cases of benefit fraud committed abroad were investigated resulting in a prosecution, caution or getting the money back. They included: . Minister for Welfare Reform Lord Freud said: ‘We are determined to catch anyone who commits benefit fraud - where ever they are in the world when they lie about a claim is irrelevant. ‘We work closely with authorities across the globe to bring cheats stealing from British taxpayers to justice and I urge everyone who suspects someone of fraud, even if they are living thousands of miles away, to report it to our benefit fraud hotline or online.’ Since 2008 Spain has informed the Department for Work and Pensions when a UK national dies, which is matched to the UK database to avoid fraud and avoid large overpayments which then have to be paid back. Last year more than 2,000 cases of benefit fraud committed abroad were investigated resulting in a prosecution, caution or getting the money back . Similar arrangements are also in place with Australia, the Netherlands, Ireland Irish Republic, the Channel Islands, Gibraltar and New Zealand.Talks are on-going with other countries, including Belgium, Germany, Malta, Norway, Poland and Sweden, to set up data-sharing arrangements, and the DWP is also working with the Crown Prosecution Service on whether fraudsters can be extradited back to the UK. An estimated £61million was lost to benefit fraud abroad last year - a tiny fraction of the total benefit fraud in the UK which the Citizens Advice Bureau put at £1.6billion a year and may be far higher. But nearly one in five cases of pension credit fraud was committed abroad last year.