Tiger Woods sex scandal update: Porn star Devon James makes 15 mistresses as Elin continues to fume 
  
 DEVONJAMESXXX.COM 'I want you to be my whore' was one text message Florida-based porn star Devon James says Tiger Woods sent her. 
  
 Now Tiger Woods is triple-X. 
  
 A third porn star spewed tawdry tales of threesomes with Woods on Tuesday amid reports that his still-furious wife may skip his big return to golf. 
  
 Devon James, a Florida-based "adult entertainer," claims she bedded Woods over a 2-1/2-year stretch. 
  
 In a radio interview, she recounted her first meeting with Woods just minutes before a three-way. 
  
 "Hi, I'm Tiger. Nice to meet you," she quoted him as saying before they quickly got down to business. 
  
 Woods, 34, allegedly paid the two women $2,000 each for what she described as "dirty" sex. 
  
 "There was very little talk the first time," said James, a 29-year-old busty blond. 
  
 Woods immediately asked for her personal phone number, and the affair continued into 2008, she claimed. 
  
 The trysts bring the total of Woods' mistresses to 15, by some counts, in his five-year marriage. 
  
 That new tales of his infidelities are still emerging has Woods' wife, Elin, furious, reports the Chicago Sun-Times. 
  
 She'll likely won't be there when her husband hits the links next month at the Masters Tournament in Augusta, Ga., the paper and People magazine both reported. 
  
 "By not going, she sends a signal that she is staying with Tiger only because of the children," a source told People. 
  
 Meanwhile, James said she had phone records verifying her claim of a relationship with Woods, including one that says, "I want you to be my whore." Woods also has been linked to porn stars Joslyn James and Holly Sampson. 
  
 lmcshane@nydailynews.com ||||| this data is currently not publicly accessible. 
  
 Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. 
  
 Sorry, the page you requested could not be found. 
  
 If you are trying to reach a page from a bookmark, the page URL may have changed. Please choose a community from the navigation at the top of this page. 
  
 If you are looking for an older news story, it may no longer be here. Free archives of stories are maintained on our site for one month. 
  
 If you still have trouble finding what you need, please contact our webmaster |||||