Former NFL quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel presented himself for booking before posting bond in Texas today, one day before his first scheduled court hearing in a domestic violence case. 
  
 A grand jury charged Manziel, 23, with family violence assault last week following allegations from an ex-girlfriend who accused Manziel of accosting her and then hitting her during an incident in January. 
  
 A mugshot of the former Cleveland Browns quarterback was released today by police in Highland Park, Texas, a wealthy Dallas enclave separate from the city of Dallas. 
  
 Manziel faces a Class A misdemeanor that carries up to a year in jail and a $4,000 fine. 
  
 Manziel’s lead counsel, Jim Darnell, said in a statement after the indictment was announced: “We certainly respect the decision of the grand jury but of course they only hear part of the case: What the D.A. chooses to share with them. We don’t know what that was. Johnny will certainly plead 'not guilty' and we believe the evidence will support that plea. Out of respect for Ms. [Colleen] Crowley, we will not try the case in the press. We do, however, believe that Johnny will be acquitted at the conclusion of the case." 
  
 He is expected to appear briefly before a Dallas judge on Thursday morning. 
  
 In 2012, while at Texas A&M;, Manziel became the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy. He later signed with the Cleveland Browns. The team released him in March 2016. 
  
 ABC News' Emily Shapiro and The Associated Press contributed to this report. ||||| Former NFL quarterback Johnny Manziel has posted bond in Dallas County, Tex., on domestic violence charges, according to KXAS-TV. He is expected to appear in court on Thursday to answer charges of misdemeanor assault, and his attorney indicates that he will plead not guilty. 
  
 Manziel was booked and released on $1,500 bond. The charges stem from an incident in January during which he allegedly assaulted his then-girlfriend Colleen Crowley. A Dallas County grand jury indicted Manziel last month. 
  
 Crowley contends that a Jan. 29 argument between her and Manziel turned physical, and alleges that he hit her when she tried to get out of his car. Manziel was prohibited from being within 500 feet of Crowley for two years, and has been ordered to pay $12,000 in legal costs. If convicted, he faces a maximum of a year in prison and a $4,000 fine. 
  
 Manziel, only two years ago one of the most notable names in the NFL, has managed to party and drink himself out of the NFL after two less-than-spectacular seasons with the Cleveland Browns. Sponsors and agents alike have dropped him, and he faces an uphill road if he wants to play professional football again. 
  
 ____ 
  
 Jay Busbee is a writer for Yahoo Sports and the author of EARNHARDT NATION. Contact him at jay.busbee@yahoo.com or find him on Twitter or on Facebook. |||||