Hillary Clinton Holds 'Tough, Candid' Meeting With Black Lives Matter Activists 
  
 NPR's Kelly McEvers speaks with DeRay McKesson of the group, "We The Protesters," about the meeting with presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in Washington, D.C., Friday. 
  
 KELLY MCEVERS, HOST: 
  
 Today, activists with the Black Lives Matter movement met privately with presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. The activists have been calling attention to issues of racism and police brutality and marching in the streets of places like Ferguson, New York and Baltimore. DeRay McKesson is one of the best-known names of this movement, and after he met with Clinton, he streamed this video on twitter. 
  
 (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) 
  
 DERAY MCKESSON: Hey. Thank you so much for the meeting. 
  
 HILLARY CLINTON: Thank you. 
  
 MCKESSON: You're on Periscope, so can you just say hi to the Internet. 
  
 CLINTON: Hi. Hi, everybody. 
  
 (LAUGHTER) 
  
 CLINTON: You are the social media emperor. 
  
 MCEVERS: DeRay McKesson joins me now from Washington. Thanks for being with us. 
  
 MCKESSON: Thank you, Kelly. I'm humbled to be here. 
  
 MCEVERS: Well, first off, can you just tell us, how did this meeting with Hilary Clinton come about? 
  
 MCKESSON: You know, I tweeted to her and said, I would love to find time to talk about a set of issues before you release the platform. And - in her campaign - she responded on Twitter, and we subsequently worked to schedule the meeting. So we met for about 90 minutes - about 10 or 11 protesters from around the country. 
  
 MCEVERS: And what did you talk about? 
  
 MCKESSON: We talked about a range of issues spanning from private prisons to mental health services for young kids to the role of the federal government ensuring equity in local and state governments in a community. So it was a tough conversation, candid conversation. I'm hopeful that it will lead to an informed platform that she eventually rolls out. You know, we didn't agree about everything, namely the role of the police in communities, you know? We had a lot of conversation about that. 
  
 MCEVERS: You said that the - some of the interactions with Clinton were tough - tough how? 
  
 MCKESSON: Yeah, so we just didn't agree, right? So there were pushes from protestors that are saying people don't believe that the police are always these beacons of safety in communities. And she, you know, at the beginning, felt strongly that police presence was necessary. She listened and heard people sort of talk about how safety is more expensive than police. And we worked through that, but it was a tough exchange. 
  
 And I think around some other issues - around the private prisons - right? - it was like, you know, will you end private prisons? And she was adamant about ending private prisons. There was a question about, will she stop taking money from lobbyists who lobby for private prisons? And it was unclear where she landed, but that exchange was - we had, like, tough conversation around it. 
  
 MCEVERS: When you talk about alternatives to police, what are you talking about? 
  
 MCKESSON: So, sort of highlighting this question, what does it mean that we have a police-first response to everything? With kids in schools - right? - like, do we need the police to be the people that help schools be safe places? So just trying to push on that, you know, and thinking about, like - there are some models around the country where we've seen that when you employ people, that crime decreases in some places. And that's, like, an alternative to this idea that police - that we can arrest our way out of the issue of crime. 
  
 MCEVERS: I mean, this activist movement got its start in the streets. Just over a year ago, you were protesting in the streets of Ferguson after the killing of Michael Brown. And now you're in Washington having this private meeting with a presidential candidate. I mean, what do you make of this? 
  
 MCKESSON: Yeah. So the protest highlighted this need to focus on black America in a way that structures had not before. Hillary knows, just as Bernie and O'Malley, that they cannot win without the black vote. And what we're seeing is, like, a new generation get mobilize around their own understanding of power and our understanding of, like, what the systemic response should be. 
  
 MCEVERS: And that's candidate Martin O'Malley. I mean, do you have any plans to meet with Republican candidates? 
  
 MCKESSON: Yes. I formally requested a meeting with Marco Rubio. And they replied saying that someone else would reach out to me, and I've not heard a reply yet. And I will likely reach out to Ben Carson's team, and I'm also trying to get a meeting on the books with RNC. 
  
 MCEVERS: That's DeRay McKesson. He's with the group We The Protesters. Earlier today, he and other activists met privately with Hillary Clinton in Washington. DeRay, thank you so much. 
  
 MCKESSON: Thank you. 
  
 MCEVERS: And one more note here. After today's meeting, Hillary Clinton tweeted, quote, "racism is America's original sin. To those I met with today, thank you for sharing your ideas." 
  
 Copyright © 2015 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. 
  
 NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. ||||| In a surprise move, civil rights activist DeRay Mckesson jumped into the already crowded contest for Baltimore mayor Wednesday night, shaking up the Democratic field minutes before the deadline to file. 
  
 "Baltimore is a city of promise and possibility," the Black Lives Matter member told The Baltimore Sun. "We can't rely on traditional pathways to politics and the traditional politicians who walk those paths if we want transformational change." 
  
 He said he planned to release a platform within a week. He said it would include a call for internal school system audits to be made public. 
  
 Mckesson was the 13th and final candidate to jump into the primary race. In deep-blue Baltimore, the Democratic primary has long determined the winner of the general election. 
  
 Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake has declined to run for re-election. Leading candidates include former Mayor Sheila Dixon, state Sen. Catherine E. Pugh, City Councilmen Carl Stokes and Nick J. Mosby, lawyer Elizabeth Embry and businessman David L. Warnock. 
  
 Mckesson, 30, a Baltimore native and former public school administrator here and in Minnesota, is part of a team called Campaign Zero, which seeks to end police killings in America. The group wants to end "broken windows" policing, increase community oversight of police and limit use of force, among other goals. 
  
 Mckesson has gained widespread attention in the protest movement that began in Ferguson, Mo., and came to Baltimore last year to demonstrate against police brutality after the death of Freddie Gray. He has nearly 300,000 followers on Twitter. 
  
 He has met with top White House officials and presidential candidates in recent months to discuss civil rights. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has called him a "social media emperor." 
  
 Several candidates have filed to run for mayor in 2016 or have announced their intentions to run, including politicians, a bar owner and a crime victim. Others have said they are considering entering the race. 
  
 In recent months, Mckesson has been living in North Baltimore. 
  
 Dixon, the front-runner in the Democratic primary, said Wednesday she had not heard of Mckesson. She noted there are less than three months to go until the election, and said she wouldn't be distracted. 
  
 "We all want the best for Baltimore," she said. "There are 84 days left. I'm staying focused." 
  
 Recent polls showed Dixon leading the Democratic primary, followed by Pugh and Stokes. 
  
 Mosby, who has been doing well among younger voters, welcomed Mckesson to the race. "I welcome anyone to the race and look forward to the discussion about building a better Baltimore," he said. "I have seen the best and the worst of Baltimore and so far I am the only candidate for mayor to offer a comprehensive plan to tackle Baltimore's toughest challenges." 
  
 The crowded Democratic field means a candidate could win the April 26 primary with a small fraction of the vote. 
  
 Sean Yoes, the host of the "First Edition" radio show at Morgan State University's WEAA station, said Mckesson's candidacy would "represent a departure from business as usual." 
  
 But he added that Mckesson is likely not well-known among the older African-American women who have long decided Baltimore's elections. 
  
 "If the electorate consisted of celebrities who were politically conscious, then maybe he would have a chance," Yoes said. "I suspect the vast majority of the most prolific voting bloc in Baltimore City do not know who he is. That's going to be problematic for him." 
  
 Mckesson said he would have to catch up to candidates who have been running for months. 
  
 "We can build a Baltimore where more and more people want to live and work and where everyone can thrive," he said. 
  
 Later, on the blogging site Medium.com, he contrasted his background with those of the leading candidates. "It is true that I am a non-traditional candidate — I am not a former Mayor, City Councilman, state legislator, philanthropist or the son of a well-connected family. I am an activist, organizer, former teacher, and district administrator that intimately understands how interwoven our challenges and our solutions are," Mckesson wrote. 
  
 Johnetta Elzie, another well-known activist with the Black Lives Matter movement, said she was moving to Baltimore to work on Mckesson's campaign. 
  
 "I'm definitely going to be on the campaign," she said. "I'm excited." 
  
 Elzie, who met Mckesson during the Ferguson protests, said she believes in his "passion and the love he has for the city he's from. 
  
 "He talks about poverty and race and how those are intertwined," Elzie said. "DeRay's path is to be a truth-teller while improving the city he grew up in." 
  
 Wednesday was also the deadline to file for Congress. Candidates to succeed retiring Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski include Democratic Reps. Chris Van Hollen and Donna F. Edwards and Republicans Kathy Szeliga, Richard J. Douglas, Chrys Kefalas and Anthony Seda. 
  
 In the Baltimore mayor's race, other Democrats running include engineer Calvin Allen Young III, former bank operations manager Patrick Gutierrez, Baltimore police Sgt. Gersham Cupid, author Mack Clifton, former UPS manager Cindy Walsh and nurse Wilton Wilson. 
  
 Republican candidates are Armand F. Girard, a retired math teacher; Chancellor Torbit, the brother of a slain police officer; Brian Charles Vaeth, a former city firefighter; Alan Walden, a former WBAL radio anchor; and Larry O. Wardlow Jr., who filed late Wednesday. 
  
 The Green Party will hold a primary election between community activist Joshua Harris, Army veteran Emanuel McCray and U.S. Marine David Marriott. 
  
 Candidates have until Friday to withdraw from the ballot. Citizens have until Feb. 12 to challenge the residency of any of the candidates. The general election is Nov. 8. 
  
 There are 369,000 registered voters in Baltimore, including 288,000 Democrats, 47,000 unaffiliated voters and 30,000 Republicans. There are about 1,200 Libertarians and 1,100 Greens. 
  
 Statewide, there are about 3.8 million registered voters, including 2 million Democrats, 972,000 Republicans, and 694,000 unaffiliated voters. 
  
 lbroadwater@baltsun.com 
  
 twitter.com/lukebroadwater ||||| I Am Running for Mayor of Baltimore 
  
 I love Baltimore. This city has made me the man that I am. 
  
 Like an old friend, I’ve seen it at its best and its most challenged. From Ms. Rainey’s second grade class at Rosemont Elementary School to the mixes of K Swift & Miss Tony on 92Q, to the nights at Afram, Shake N Bake and the Inner Harbor, I was raised in the joy and charm of this city. 
  
 Like many others, I know this city’s pain. As the child of two now-recovered addicts, I have lived through the impact of addiction. I too have received the call letting me know that another life has fallen victim to the violence of our city. Like so many other residents, I have watched our city deal what seems like an endless series of challenges and setbacks. 
  
 Perhaps because I have seen both the impact of addiction and the power of recovery, I hold tight to the notion that our history is not our destiny. That we are, and always will be, more than our pain. What we choose to do today and tomorrow will shape our future and build our reality. It is why I believe so strongly that Baltimore is, and has always been, a city of promise and possibility. 
  
 I have come to realize that the traditional pathway to politics, and the traditional politicians who follow these well-worn paths, will not lead us to the transformational change our city needs. Many have accepted that our current political reality is fixed and irreversible — that we must resign ourselves to accept the way that City Hall functions, or the role of money and connections in dictating who runs and wins elections. They have bought into the notion that there is only one road that leads to serve as an elected leader. 
  
 It is easy to accept this, because those of us from Baltimore live and experience the failures of traditional politics and pathways to leadership. Too often the elected individuals we put our public trust in, disappoint us. We have lived through lofty promises and vague plans. We have come to expect little and accept less. When we rely on this traditional model of politics we are rewarded with consistent, disappointing results. 
  
 In order to achieve the promise of our city and become the Baltimore we know we can become, we must challenge the practices that have not and will not lead to transformation. We must demand more from our leaders and local government. 
  
 Getty Images 
  
 At its core, being the Mayor is about having a vision for the city that is both aspirational and grounded in reality. It is about demonstrating the ability to turn intentions into reality and maintaining the fortitude to see our ambitions met with strong implementation. 
  
 I am running to be the 50th Mayor of Baltimore in order to usher our city into an era where the government is accountable to its people and is aggressively innovative in how it identifies and solves its problems. We can build a Baltimore where more and more people want to live and work, and where everyone can thrive. 
  
 It is true that I am a non-traditional candidate — I am not a former Mayor, City Councilman, state legislator, philanthropist or the son of a well-connected family. I am an activist, organizer, former teacher, and district administrator that intimately understands how interwoven our challenges and our solutions are. 
  
 I am a son of Baltimore. 
  
 Getty Images 
  
 I understand that issues of safety are more expansive than policing, and that to make the city as safe as we want it to be, we will have to address issues related to job development, job access, grade-level reading, transportation, and college readiness, amongst others. 
  
 I also understand that transparency is a core pillar of government integrity. We deserve to know where our city services — from housing and sanitation, to schools and police — are doing well and falling short. To this end, we must invest in a broad range of systems and structures of accountability and transparency, including the release of the internal audits of the Baltimore City Public School System along with annual and timely audits of all city agencies. 
  
 I am not the silver bullet for the challenges of our city — no one individual is. But together, with the right ideas, the right passion, the right people, we can take this city in a new direction. 
  
 In the weeks ahead, I will release a policy platform and a plan for Baltimore that is rooted in these beliefs. 
  
 I look forward to earning your vote and working with you to change the trajectory of Baltimore. 
  
 Together, we will win. |||||