Image copyright EPA Image caption Reinhold Hanning has admitted being an SS guard at Auschwitz 
  
 A 94-year-old former Auschwitz death camp guard has apologised to Nazi victims in a court in western Germany, saying he feels "ashamed" of his work at a "criminal organisation". 
  
 Reinhold Hanning is accused of being an accessory to the murder of at least 170,000 people at the camp. He was an SS guard there from 1942 to 1944. 
  
 He has said he knew what was going on at the camp but did not act to stop it. 
  
 But he denies involvement in murder. His trial in Detmold began in February. 
  
 The Nazis killed about 1.1m people at Auschwitz in occupied southern Poland, most of them Jews. 
  
 Mr Hanning was on duty there at a time when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews were murdered. 
  
 "I want to say that it disturbs me deeply that I was part of such a criminal organisation," he told the court. 
  
 "I am ashamed that I saw injustice and never did anything about it and I apologise for my actions. I am very, very sorry." 
  
 It was the first time he had spoken openly about his role at Auschwitz. Prosecutors say he met Jewish prisoners as they arrived at the camp and may have escorted some to the gas chambers. 
  
 A verdict is expected in May but, at his age, experts say he is unlikely to serve a prison sentence because of the length of the appeals process. 
  
 'I knew it' 
  
 Earlier, his lawyer read a 22-page declaration from Mr Hanning in which he admitted knowing what was happening at the camp while he served there. 
  
 He was said to have joined the SS forces voluntarily in 1940 at the age of 18 at the urging of his stepmother. 
  
 In the declaration, Mr Hanning said he was sent to Auschwitz after being wounded in battle and having his requests to return to the frontline rejected. 
  
 Image copyright Bundesarchiv Image caption Reinhold Hanning, pictured here as a young man in SS uniform, was a guard at Auschwitz 
  
 "People were shot, gassed and burned. I could see how corpses were taken back and forth or moved out. I could smell the burning bodies; I knew corpses were being burned," the statement read. 
  
 There was no mention in the statement of whether he had any involvement in the killings in the camp. 
  
 'Apology not enough' 
  
 Auschwitz survivor and co-plaintiff Leon Schwarzbaum was in court when Mr Hanning gave his apology and said it was not enough. 
  
 "I lost 35 family members, how can you apologise for that?'' the 95-year-old was quoted by AP news agency as saying. 
  
 "I am not angry, I do not want him to go to prison but he should say more for the sake of the young generation today because the historical truth is important.'' 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Auschwitz survivor Leon Schwarzbaum, at the beginning of the trial, with a photo of himself, his parents and uncle who died at the camp 
  
 On Thursday the court heard grim details of the selection process that Jews faced on arrival at Auschwitz, WDR reports (in German). The presiding judge read out lists of transports, detailing how many people were selected as being "capable of work", and how many were sent straight to be gassed. 
  
 Until recently, German prosecutors were required to provide evidence that defendants were directly involved in the killings. 
  
 But that changed with the 2011 conviction of John Demjanjuk, when a judge concluded that his activities as a camp worker in Nazi-occupied Poland amounted to complicity in mass murder. 
  
 Last year a German court sentenced Oskar Groening, 94, to four years in jail as an accessory to the murder of at least 300,000 people at Auschwitz. 
  
 Known as the SS "book-keeper of Auschwitz", he was allegedly responsible for counting banknotes confiscated from prisoners. 
  
 Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp 
  
 Construction began in 1940 on site that grew to 40sq km (15 sq miles) 
  
 About one million Jews were killed at the camp in Nazi-occupied Poland 
  
 Other victims included Roma (Gypsies), disabled people, homosexuals, dissidents, non-Jewish Poles and Soviet prisoners 
  
 How the Holocaust unfolded, year by year 
  
 Why did ordinary people commit atrocities in the Holocaust? ||||| 94-year-old former SS sergeant Reinhold Hanning sits in the courtroom in Detmold, Germany, Friday, April 29, 2016. Henning plans to make his first statement to the German court since his trial opened... (Associated Press) 
  
 DETMOLD, Germany (AP) — A 94-year-old former SS sergeant admitted in court Friday that he had served as an Auschwitz death camp guard, apologizing to Nazi Holocaust survivors looking on in a German courtroom that even though he was aware Jews were being gassed and their corpses burned, he did nothing to try to stop it. 
  
 Reinhold Hanning told the Detmold state court that he had never spoken about his wartime service in Auschwitz from January 1942 to June 1944, even to his family, but wanted to use his trial as an opportunity to set the record straight. 
  
 "I want to say that it disturbs me deeply that I was part of such a criminal organization," he said as he sat in a wheelchair, talking with a weak voice into a microphone. "I am ashamed that I saw injustice and never did anything about it and I apologize for my actions. I am very, very sorry." 
  
 As he spoke, Auschwitz survivor Leon Schwarzbaum watched from about 5 meters (yards) away with a steely face, afterward saying he was happy Hanning apologized but that it wasn't enough. 
  
 "I lost 35 family members, how can you apologize for that?" the 95-year-old said. "I am not angry, I don't want him to go to prison but he should say more for the sake of the young generation today because the historical truth is important." 
  
 Hanning is charged with 170,000 counts of accessory to murder on allegations that as a guard he helped the death camp function, so can legally be found guilty of accessory to murder. Schwarzbaum is one of some 40 Holocaust survivors who has joined the trial as co-plaintiff as allowed under German law, though only one other was in court to hear Hanning. 
  
 Prosecutor Andreas Brendel said there was good evidence already that Hanning served in the camp, but that his admission Friday could help win a conviction. 
  
 "Today's statement contributed a little more to establish that he was there, because he admitted that, and more importantly to the fact that he knew about the killings in the main camp — that also is a crucial fact," Brendel told The Associated Press. 
  
 Pleas are not entered in the German system and such statements to the court are not uncommon, and frequently help mitigate the length of a sentence. Hanning faces a possible 15 years in prison if convicted but at his age it is unlikely he will ever spend time behind bars given the length of the appeals process. 
  
 Ahead of the short statement he made himself, Hanning's attorney Johannes Salmen read a 22-page statement from Hanning detailing how his client had joined the Hitler Youth with his class in 1935 at age 13, then volunteered at 18 for the Waffen SS in 1940 at the urging of his stepmother. He fought in several battles in World War II before being hit by grenade splinters in his head and leg during close combat in Kiev in 1941. 
  
 Hanning spoke fondly of his time at the front and said as he was recovering from his wounds he asked to be sent back but his commander decided he was no longer fit for front-line duty, so sent him to Auschwitz. 
  
 He said he didn't know what Auschwitz was at that time, but quickly found out, though he said his initial responsibility was to register patrols and work details coming and going through the front gate, far away from where the killings were taking place. 
  
 "Nobody talked to us about it in the first days there, but if someone, like me, was there for a long time then one learned what was going on," he told the court in the statement, looking down at the table in front of him as it was read aloud. "People were shot, gassed and burned. I could see how corpses were taken back and forth or moved out. I could smell the burning bodies; I knew corpses were being burned." 
  
 He was later assigned to a guard tower and said all guards had orders to shoot prisoners trying to escape, but he did not say whether he ever shot anyone himself and did not mention any specific involvement in the killings in Auschwitz, where nearly 1 million Jews and tens of thousands of others were slaughtered. 
  
 "I've tried my whole life to forget about this time," he said. "Auschwitz was a nightmare." |||||