Passengers wait to enter a railway station after trains were delayed due to bad weather in southern China in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, February 1, 2016. Reuters/China Daily 
  
 Lunar New Year travel in China is never for the faint of heart. A spell of bad weather has made the long trip home particularly arduous for many travelers this year. 
  
 More than 100,000 people were stuck at the Guangzhou Railway Station in southern China on Monday after rain and snow in the northern part of the country delayed large numbers of trains, according to Chinese media reports. 
  
 Over 100k passengers trapped in Guangzhou Railway Station on Mon, due to train delays in #SpringFestival travel rush pic.twitter.com/DcajMP3oAq — People's Daily,China (@PDChina) February 2, 2016 
  
 By early Tuesday morning, some 34,000 travelers remained at the station, the Guangzhou-based Southern Metropolis Daily reported. At Guangzhou’s East Railway Station, train delays stranded another 22,500, the paper said. In China’s financial hub Shanghai, meanwhile, more than 30,000 people were stuck at the Hongqiao Railway Station after 60 trains were delayed, the city’s online news outlet The Paper reported. 
  
 Passengers trapped in Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station on Feb 1 due to train delays. Watch: https://t.co/rcLuXrebGN pic.twitter.com/cSrGp3jdmw — People's Daily,China (@PDChina) February 2, 2016 
  
 The Lunar New Year, also known as Spring Festival, falls on Feb. 8 this year. About 2.9 billion trips are expected to be made between Feb. 24 and Mar. 3 as Chinese return to their hometowns for the holiday, according to China’s official Xinhua News Agency. 
  
 In the past — such as in 2008, when winter storms left some 5.8 million rail passengers stranded during the Lunar New Year rush — long delays have led to scuffles (or worse) among frustrated travelers. There have been no such reports so far this year — although the peak travel period is only beginning. 
  
 –Felicia Sonmez. Follow her on Twitter @feliciasonmez. 
  
 Scroll down for more photos and videos of Lunar New Year travelers in cities across China: 
  
 Observing China's Spring Festival travel rush outside Guangzhou Railway Station on Sunday pic.twitter.com/XtsyKDY775 — Joyu Wang (@joyuwang) February 2, 2016 
  
 Passengers wait to enter a railway station after trains were delayed due to bad weather in southern China in Guangzhou, Guangdong province, February 1, 2016. Reuters/China Daily 
  
 In this Feb. 1, 2016 photo, policemen direct stranded passengers outside the Guangzhou Railway Station after trains were delayed as they prepare going back to their hometown for the upcoming Chinese Lunar New Year. Associated Press 
  
 Passengers wait to board trains at the Guangzhou Railway Station in Guangzhou, capital of south China’s Guangdong Province, Feb. 2, 2016. Zuma Press 
  
 Passengers ask for refunds on their tickets at a counter inside a railway station after trains were delayed due to heavy snow, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, February 1, 2016. Reuters/China Daily 
  
 A man carries his sack as he walks towards the Beijing Railway Station during the travel rush ahead of the upcoming Spring Festival in Beijing, China, February 2, 2016. Reuters ||||| China's annual Spring Festival travel rush never really gets truly started until tens of thousands of travelers are stranded together inside a single railway station for hours on end. 
  
 Such was the case last night, when rare snow in parts of eastern and central Chinese caused the delay of some trains, sending travelers spiraling into total hell. At the always hellish Guangzhou Railway Station, around 100,000 people waited outside for their train to finally come in. 
  
 For the historic occasion, local police were forced to draft 1,300 extra security personnel when the initial 2,600 officers just weren't enough to handle the constantly surging crowd. 
  
 Check out all the fun: 
  
 Of course, migrants in Guangzhou weren't the only ones suffering. Try to find Waldo in these pics of Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station from last night: 
  
 Suffocating scenes from Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station last night.READ MORE: http://shst.me/d4q Posted by Shanghaiist on Monday, February 1, 2016 
  
  
  
 Or at Hangzhou East Railway Station: 
  
 This is just more evidence that if you are planning to stay in China for the holidays, it's probably best to just stay put and try to move as little possible. If you're spending it in Shanghai, check out our survival guide. Happy holidays! 
  
 [Images via NetEase // Tencent] ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Aerial footage showed the scale of the crowds 
  
 Heavy snow has disrupted public transport in southern China, stranding tens of thousands of people outside a rail station, police say. 
  
 The crowd outside Guangzhou station swelled to nearly 100,000 at its peak on Monday night, police said. 
  
 Central China has experienced some of its coldest weather in years. 
  
 The rare snow has coincided with the run-up to Chinese New Year - where hundreds of millions of Chinese travel home to see their families. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters 
  
 Many trains from north and central China were delayed by the snow - leaving passengers in the south stranded with no transport. 
  
 More than 50,000 people still remained stuck outside Guangzhou railway station on Tuesday, state media said. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters 
  
 Local police said 5,200 officers had been deployed to maintain order. 
  
 They urged passengers to check their train details online and avoid "blindly heading to the station to wait for trains", saying this would exacerbate the overcrowding. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters 
  
 Officials estimate nearly three billion trips will take place over the holiday season, in what is considered the world's biggest annual human migration. 
  
 Meanwhile, traffic jams had led to more than 400 people in Guangzhou missing their flights, Xinhua news agency reported. |||||