Casey Curry/Invision/AP/Casey Curry/Invision/AP Simone Battle, a member of the pop group G.R.L., was found dead at her home on Friday. Frank Micelotta/Fox/PictureGroup/FRANK MICELOTTA/INVISION/AP Simone Battle performs onstage while competing on ‘The X Factor’ in 2011. Previous Next 
  
 Enlarge 
  
 Simone Battle, a member of the pop group G.R.L., has died in an apparent suicide. 
  
 TMZ reports that the 25-year-old’s father was the one to discover her Friday morning, and that she was found hanging in a closet in her bedroom in her Los Angeles home. Law enforcement sources tell the site that her death appears to be a suicide. 
  
 Battle rose to fame when she competed on the U.S. version of “The X Factor” in 2011. Even though she was eliminated during the first live show of the competition, Battle parlayed her reality TV fame into a spot in the popular all-girl group G.R.L., a rebooted version of The Pussycat Dolls. 
  
 Her death was confirmed in a joint statement from RCA Records, Kemosabe Records, Reign Deer Entertainment and G.R.L. founder Robin Antin. 
  
 Casey Curry/Casey Curry/Invision/AP (L-R) Paula Van Oppen, Lauren Bennett, Emmalyn Estrada, Natasha Slayton, and Simone Battle are members of the band G.R.L. 
  
 "Simone was an exceptional young talent and human being, and we are all devastated to learn of her passing,” the statement said. "Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and loved ones at this time." 
  
 Cheryl Cole, who served as a judge on the first few episodes of "The X Factor," including Battle's audition episode, offered her condolences Saturday. 
  
 "Such tragically sad news to hear of the passing of Simone Battle," she tweeted. "My thoughts and prayers are with her loved ones." 
  
 One of Battle’s longtime friends, Derek Butler, also took to Instagram to share his grief. 
  
 “I’m still in shock and in disbelief to have confirmed the death of my childhood friend Simone Battle,” he wrote. 
  
 “Her heart was pure gold and her star power limitless.” 
  
 ON A MOBILE DEVICE? CLICK HERE TO WATCH VIDEO. ||||| Law enforcement sources reportedly say she was found hanging and the death appears to be suicide. 
  
 G.R.L. member Simone Battle has died at the age of 25, Billboard has confirmed. 
  
 G.R.L. Drops 'Ugly Heart' Single: Listen 
  
 Battle was found in her Los Angeles home on Sept. 5. A cause of death has not yet been confirmed, but law enforcement sources tell TMZ she was found hanging and the death appears to be suicide. 
  
 "Words cannot express the depth of our loss. Simone's incredible talent was only surpassed by the size of her heart," G.R.L. tweeted on Sept. 6. "We will carry her memory with us in everything we do." 
  
 Words cannot express the depth of our loss. Simone's incredible talent was only surpassed by the size of her heart. — G.R.L. (@grl) September 6, 2014 
  
 We will carry her memory with us in everything we do. — G.R.L. (@grl) September 6, 2014 
  
 Battle, an X Factor alum, was one of five members of girl group G.R.L., whose debut self-titled EP was released on July 29 through Kemosabe Records/RCA Records. After getting some shine by collaborating with Pitbull on the Top 40 hit "Wild Wild Love," the act released the single "Ugly Heart," produced by Dr. Luke and Cirkut. 
  
 G.R.L. was created by choreographer/director Robin Antin as a reboot of sorts of the Pussycat Dolls, which disbanded in 2010. The group also includes members Lauren Bennett, Emmalyn Estrada, Natasha Slayton and Paula Van Oppen. 
  
 G.R.L.: New Girl Group's Formation Was 'Not Something That Happened Overnight' 
  
 G.R.L.’s management company Reign Deer Entertainment, Antin, Kemosabe Records and RCA released the following statement following Battle’s death. 
  
 “We are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the loss of Simone Battle of G.R.L. Simone was an exceptional young talent and human being, and we are all devastated to learn of her passing. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and loved ones at this time.” 
  
 Battle’s last tweeted was on Sept. 2 that she was heading out to see artist Evan Mellows perform at the Bootleg in Los Angeles. 
  
 Battle competed on The X Factor in 2011, auditioning for the judges with the Pussycat Dolls song "When I Grow Up." She was mentored by Simon Cowell and was eliminated from the show in the first week. 
  
  
  
 Battle was also an actress, having appeared in episodes of Everybody Hates Chris and Zoey 101. She joined G.R.L. in 2013 and had released several singles of her own. 
  
 (The Hollyood Reporter's Ryan Gajewski contributed to this article) ||||| 'X Factor' Star Simone Battle Dies at 25 ... From Apparent Suicide 
  
 'X Factor' Star Dead -- Singer Simone Battle from 'G.R.L.' Dies at 25 ... From Apparent Suicide 
  
 EXCLUSIVE 
  
 -- Law enforcement sources tell TMZ Simone was found hanging on a rod in the closet of her bedroom around 8:30 AM on Friday.Singer, who rose to fame on the US version of... was found dead in her Los Angeles home ... and TMZ has learned it appears to be a suicide.25-year-old Battle was a singer in the girl group... which was the reboot of the Pussycat Dolls. She signed on with the group after her run on "X Factor" ... where she was a finalist, making it into the top 17.The L.A. County Cororner's Office tells us Battle's autopsy has not been completed yet ... so, nothing has been ruled out as cause of death.Simone's father told us she was found in the bedroom of her apartment in a West Hollywood neighborhood. He described her home as a guest house of a larger residence.Story developing ...In June, TMZ shot video of Simone and her 'GRL' bandmate. They were excited about their songwith |||||