Swansea's win at Sunderland means that Hull must win at Selhurst Park to stand a realistic chance of survival.
Silva said: "I always said that the fight would go on until the end of the season.
"It is possible to have another twist. It is a fight between ourselves, Crystal Palace and Swansea."
Sunderland and Middlesbrough are already down, while a win for Hull would take the fight to avoid 18th place to the final day of the season.
Should Hull and Palace draw, the Eagles would be safe and the Tigers would need a seven-goal swing in goal difference on the final day to stay up ahead of Swansea.
"The pressure lies on Hull. They have to win the game, we have to draw it," said Crystal Palace manager Sam Allardyce.
"We play not to lose - that is the key element. Whoever deals with the pressure better is a big factor.
"Our crowd will be a big help as long as they get don't nervous. If they get nervous, they can pass that over and that will make us a bit more nervous.
"We have to deal with the emotion of the game on Sunday and come out on top."
Crystal Palace will monitor injury doubts James Tomkins, Yohan Cabaye and Scott Dann.
The Eagles will also assess Joel Ward, who broke his nose at Manchester City, and Andros Townsend, who is managing an Achilles problem.
Winger Lazar Markovic will miss Hull's final two games of the season after injuring his ankle against Sunderland.
Defender Omar Elabdellaoui returns to the squad after missing seven games with a back problem.
Simon Brotherton: "This is a huge game for both clubs - but while Palace boss Sam Allardyce says it is bigger than a cup final, Marco Silva has stressed the need for Hull's players to stay calm.
"A Swansea win on Wearside has left Hull needing a victory to stand a realistic chance of staying up.
"Three points for the Swans coupled with defeat for Hull would see the Tigers relegated, while a point wouldn't send them down mathematically - but would leave them teetering on the brink.
"The stakes could hardly be higher."
Twitter: @SimonBrotherton
Palace have been all over the place defensively recently, and three defeats in a row have put them back in trouble.
A point would do for the Eagles here, though, and that is what I think they will get.
Prediction: 1-1
Lawro's full predictions v tennis world number one Andy Murray
Head-to-head
Crystal Palace
Hull City
SAM (Sports Analytics Machine) is a super-computer created by @ProfIanMcHale at the University of Salford that is used to predict the outcome of football matches.