Ian Blackford's proposal comes in the wake of plans for a single board to oversee Scotland's enterprise agencies.
HIE supports economic growth in the Northern Isles, Western Isles, Highlands, Moray and Argyll.
A Scottish government spokesman said the body would continue to provide its locally-based support.
Concerns were raised about the future of HIE when a phase one review of the country's enterprise and skills support recommended an over-arching statutory body to co-ordinate the work of Scottish Enterprise and HIE.
MSPs, including Conservative Donald Cameron, Labour's Rhoda Grant and Liberal Democrat leader Tavish Scott expressed fears of centralisation by government ministers.
Mr Blackford said that while he "fully endorsed" the establishment of one board, he also wanted HIE to have a "management or advisory board" which would "reflect the priorities" of the Highlands and islands area.
The MP for Ross, Skye and Lochaber explained to BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme: "I have spoken to a number of people in the Highlands and islands over the course of the last few weeks and one of the things I have taken time to do is to make sure we can come up with something which gives us the best of both worlds.
"One of the things we all want to do is make sure we strengthen Scotland's economic growth and that is exactly what the government is trying to do.
"What I have come up with, and what I hope has broad support within government, is something that recognises that we have to change but at the same time protects that uniqueness of HIE and the ownership that the Highlands and islands have for that.
"So this is something that will work well and it is one that I know colleagues will happily support as well."
HIE began as the Highlands and Islands Development Board 50 years ago and its current structure was established in 1990.
The CairnGorm Mountain ski resort and its funicular railway are among the assets it manages.
The Scottish government spokesman insisted HIE would continue giving "dedicated support to the local economy".
He added: "Our reforms will protect the unique service that HIE delivers for our Highland and island economies and - as Ian Blackford observes - will enhance the support that is available to businesses, employers and employees across the region."