Five victories in a row had seen Rovers keep pace with Lincoln and they had all but secured a sixth at the break courtesy of Stockton's first-half hat-trick.
Stockton headed home James Norwood's corner to put Tranmere ahead in the 20th minute before doubling the home side's lead five minutes later with a powerful finish.
The striker missed a glorious chance to complete his treble when Danny Lewis saved his penalty but he did score a third in the final minute of the half when he finished Liam Ridehalgh's cross at the back post.
Jennings got in on the act in the 48th minute with a driven shot into the bottom corner and made it five two minutes later by heading in Jeff Hughes' corner.
Andy Cook nodded home on 68 minutes and Ridehalgh appeared to complete the scoring when he curled a free-kick into the top corner five minutes from time.
But Tranmere were not done yet as Jennings found the top corner with the outside of his boot and debutant Aaron Collins fired home in stoppage time to round off a nightmare afternoon for the visitors, who are now just three points above the drop zone.
Report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Tranmere Rovers 9, Solihull Moors 0.
Second Half ends, Tranmere Rovers 9, Solihull Moors 0.
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 9, Solihull Moors 0. Aaron Collins (Tranmere Rovers).
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 8, Solihull Moors 0. Connor Jennings (Tranmere Rovers).
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 7, Solihull Moors 0. Liam Ridehalgh (Tranmere Rovers).
Substitution, Tranmere Rovers. Erico Sousa replaces Jay Harris.
Jay Harris (Tranmere Rovers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Substitution, Solihull Moors. Tyrese Shade replaces Oladapo Afolayan.
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 6, Solihull Moors 0. Andy Cook (Tranmere Rovers).
Substitution, Tranmere Rovers. Aaron Collins replaces James Norwood.
Substitution, Solihull Moors. Andy Brown replaces Omari Sterling-James.
Substitution, Solihull Moors. Jack Byrne replaces Harry White.
Substitution, Tranmere Rovers. Andy Cook replaces Cole Stockton.
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 5, Solihull Moors 0. Connor Jennings (Tranmere Rovers).
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 4, Solihull Moors 0. Connor Jennings (Tranmere Rovers).
Second Half begins Tranmere Rovers 3, Solihull Moors 0.
First Half ends, Tranmere Rovers 3, Solihull Moors 0.
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 3, Solihull Moors 0. Cole Stockton (Tranmere Rovers).
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 2, Solihull Moors 0. Cole Stockton (Tranmere Rovers).
Goal!  Tranmere Rovers 1, Solihull Moors 0. Cole Stockton (Tranmere Rovers).
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.