The gifted musician, songwriter and actor Prince Rogers Nelson died this morning at his home outside of Minneapolis. The cause of death has not yet been made public. 
  
 However, the artist had been battling the flu since at least April 7, his representatives confirmed to several media outlets, when he canceled two shows in Atlanta on his Piano and a Microphone tour. After playing the rescheduled shows on Thursday, April 14, his plane made an unscheduled emergency landing at Quad-City International Airport in Moline, Ill., at 1:30 a.m. on April 15. He was treated at Trinity Moline medical center for about three hours and was suffering from "bad dehydration." He returned to his Paisley Park home in Chanhassan, Minn., and held a dance party for 200 on the night of April 16, where he appeared for about five minutes. 
  
 [Update 4/21, 10 p.m.: TMZ is reporting based on anonymous sources that he was treated at Trinity Moline for a drug overdose.] 
  
 [Update 4/29, 11 a.m. The AP and the New York Times are now reporting that Prince was in possession of prescription opioids that included Percocet. Authorities are investigating whether a doctor was on the plane that landed in Moline. Bear in mind that the contributions of flu could still be in play even if opioids end up being the primary cause. Pulmonary complications of flu could combine with the respiratory depressant effects of opioids.] 
  
 After years of what the Mirror called hedonistic excess, Prince became a teetotaling vegan and Jehovah's Witness by 2010. Again, the cause of death is still unknown, but is the flu a possibility? Can a health nut fit enough for long flamboyant performances be taken down by influenza in his mid-50s? Doesn't flu really only kill infants and elders? 
  
 For several of the last few years, the Northern Hemisphere has been experiencing a resurgence of the 2009 pandemic strain of the influenza A virus. Last year – the 2014-2015 flu season – 61% of flu hospitalizations were among adults aged 18 to 64, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. By comparison, an H3N2 strain predominated during the previous season, with only 35% of hospitalizations occurring in the 18-64 age group. 
  
 This season, H3N2 was the predominant strain early on but the majority of cases during recent weeks has been due to 2009 H1N1. During that original pandemic season, adults 18 to 64 represented 56% of flu hospitalizations. 
  
 The influenza strains that kill young and middle-aged adults take advantage of a phenomenon immunologists call a cytokine storm. People with an otherwise healthy immune system mount an overblown response to the pathogen. They experience severe lung inflammation (pneumonia) and their blood vessels become leaky, filling the lungs with fluid. Some evidence suggests that the blood supply to the intestines also becomes leaky and digestive enzymes gain access to the bloodstream. Secondary bacterial infections can also lead to septic shock, or sepsis, the cause of actress Patty Duke's recent death. 
  
 Prolonged pneumonia and pulmonary edema can progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) where the air sacs of the lung can no longer absorb enough oxygen. The lungs become stiff and heavy from the infiltration of fluid, making it difficult for the lungs to expand. The constellation of symptoms from the overreaching immune response and problems maintaining oxygen levels and fluid balance can lead to the failure of other organs. 
  
 Patients are treated in the intensive care unit and their breathing assisted by ventilation with oxygen and positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP). Some patients will undergo extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) where the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide removed mechanically, outside the body. 
  
 As a result, ARDS kills about one-third of people whose illness progresses that far. And those who survive ARDS may suffer some degree of permanent lung damage from pulmonary fibrosis. Many also have memory and other cognitive issues from oxygen deprivation to the brain during their illness. 
  
 ARDS can occur from causes other than influenza, such as trauma, smoke inhalation, or aspiration of vomit. It strikes about 150,000 patients in the U.S. each year but death numbers are often spread across other more general categories such as pneumonia. 
  
 Those of us in science communications and journalism are all too familiar with how flu and ARDS can claim younger people. The former physicist and science writer Helen Chappell, 28, died from ARDS caused by H1N1 two years ago this month, just a week after being admitted to the Duke University Hospital for breathing problems while on a camping trip. 
  
 So, yes, young healthy people can die from flu and it's not uncommon for the currently circulating flu strain to disproportionately affect young and middle-aged adults. The best approach, always, is to not get the flu or at least reduce its severity by getting your annual influenza vaccination. This year's vaccines are an excellent match for the circulating strains. 
  
 I contacted Trinity Moline to learn more about how Prince was treated last week but spokesperson Erin Platt said, "We have no patient by that name in our directory." It's also not known how Prince had been treated at his residence or whether he had received this year's flu vaccine. 
  
 Calls to Prince's publicist who first confirmed his death have gone to voicemail. I'll update this story when I receive a response as to the cause of death. ||||| In light of Prince's death on Thursday, fans have been looking to pay tribute to the legendary musician. One of the most popular places to hold vigils for celebrities is by their stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, but Prince doesn't have one. 
  
 PHOTOS: Prince through the years 
  
  
  
 28 PHOTOS Prince through the years See Gallery Why Prince doesn't have a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Singer Prince performs in a surprise appearance on the "American Idol" television show finale at the Kodak Theater in Hollywood, California in this May 24, 2006 file photo. REUTERS/Chris Pizzello/Files NEW YORK - FEBRUARY 15: American singer, songwriter, musician and actor Prince performing in NYC at the Bottom Line on February 15, 1980. (Photo by Waring Abbott/Getty Images) Prince performing in Minneapolis on April 30,1990. (Photo: Frank Micelotta/ImageDirect) American pop star Prince performing at Wembley, London, 22nd August 1990. (Photo by Graham Wiltshire/Hulton Archive/Getty Images) PRINCE IN "ROCK IN RIO" CONCERT, BRAZIL 1992. (Photo via Alamy) American singer-songwriter Prince performs on stage, London, 1993. (Photo by Michael Putland/Getty Images) The Artist formerly known as Prince performing at Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View Calif. on October 10th, 1997. Image By: Tim Mosenfelder/ImageDirect FOR RELEASE WITH STORY BC-ENTERTAINMENT-PRINCE - The Artist formerly known as Prince seen here in a publicity photograph, July 29. The Artist formerly known as Prince has a new album "Newpower Soul" which was recorded, pressed and distributed by his NPG records label without the assistance of a major industry label. MS/CM/SB 05/16/00 New York City The Artist Formely Known as Prince reclaims his name 'Prince' and announces public tours at his Paisley Park Studio, during a press conference in New York City. Photo by Evan Agostini/ImageDirect UNDATED FILE PHOTO: Singer Prince. (Photo by Diane Freed) LOS ANGELES - FEBRUARY 8: Musical Artist Prince performs at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards held at the Staples Center on February 8, 2004 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Frank Micelotta/Getty Images) Singer Prince, who was presented the Vanguard Award, performs during the 36th NAACP Image Awards at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, Los Angeles, March 19, 2005. The award show will be telecast on the Fox televison network in the United States on March 25. REUTERS/Lee Celano ljc/MK HOLLYWOOD - FEBRUARY 27: Musician Prince arrives at the 77th Annual Academy Awards at the Kodak Theater on February 27, 2005 in Hollywood, California. (Photo by Carlo Allegri/Getty Images) LOS ANGELES - MARCH 19: Musician Prince performs onstage at the 36th Annual NAACP Image Awards at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion on March 19, 2005 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images) Jun 30, 2006; New York, NY, USA; PRINCE performing at the Celebrate Brooklyn concert in Prospect Park. Mandatory Credit: Photo by Aviv Small/ZUMA Press. (©) Copyright 2006 by Aviv Small Milan, ITALY: US singer Prince is pictured during Italian fashion house Gianni Versace show during the Spring/Summer 2007 women's collections, 29 September 2006 in Milan. AFP PHOTO (Photo credit should read STR/AFP/Getty Images) MIAMI GARDENS, FL - FEBRUARY 04: Musician Prince performs during the 'Pepsi Halftime Show' at Super Bowl XLI between the Indianapolis Colts and the Chicago Bears on February 4, 2007 at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida. (Photo by Doug Pensinger/Getty Images) MIAMI - FEBRUARY 01: Musician Prince performs during the Super Bowl XLI Half-Time Press Conference at the Miami Convention Center on February 1, 2007 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Getty Images) July 7th, 2007 - Minneapolis, MN, USA - The first ten fans in line for an exclusive Prince performance at Macy's downtown received photographs of the iconic Minneapolis funk rocker. Prince performed with his band on the 8th floor at Macy's downtown during an exclusive concert launching his new per WEST HOLLYWOOD, CA - FEBRUARY 25: Recording artist Prince leaving the 2007 Vanity Fair Oscar Party at Mortons on February 25, 2007 in West Hollywood, California. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Getty Images) PASADENA, CA - JUNE 01: Singer Prince performs onstage during the 2007 NCLR ALMA Awards held at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium on June 1, 2007 in Pasadena, California. (Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty Images for NCLR) LOS ANGELES, CA - FEBRUARY 10: Singer Prince on stage at the 50th Annual GRAMMY Awards at the Staples Center on February 10, 2008 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Lester Cohen/WireImage) THE TONIGHT SHOW WITH JAY LENO -- Episode 3737 -- Air Date 03/27/2009 -- Pictured: Musical guest Prince performs during the Mercedes Benz outdoor concert series on March 27, 2009 -- Photo by: Paul Drinkwater/NBCU Photo Bank US singer Prince performs on October 11, 2009 at the Grand Palais in Paris. Prince has decided to give two extra concerts at the Grand Palais titled 'All Day/All Night' after he discovered the exhibition hall during Karl Lagerfeld's Chanel fashion show. AFP PHOTO BERTRAND GUAY (Photo credit should read BERTRAND GUAY/AFP/Getty Images) NEW YORK - JUNE 08: Prince attends the Apollo Theater's 75th Anniversary Gala at The Apollo Theater on June 8, 2009 in New York City. (Photo by George Napolitano/FilmMagic) Prince Tour 2011 US singer and musician Prince (born Prince Rogers Nelson) performs on stage at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, outside Paris, on June 30, 2011. AFP PHOTO BERTRAND GUAY (Photo credit should read BERTRAND GUAY/AFP/Getty Images) Sept. 24, 2012 - Chicago, Illinois, U.S. - Prince performed at the United Center on Monday night. Prince is scheduled to play three consecutive night as part of Welcome 2 Chicago. September 24, 2012, Chicago, Illinois, United Center, Prince in Concert, Welcome 2 Chicago (Credit Image: © Carlos Gonzalez/Minneapolis Star Tribune/ZUMAPRESS.com) Up Next See Gallery Discover More Like This HIDE CAPTION SHOW CAPTION of SEE ALL BACK TO SLIDE 
  
 Ana Martinez, producer of the Walk of Fame ceremonies, explained why the Purple One hasn't been immortalized on the famous stretch of land yet. 
  
 WATCH: Prince Found Dead in an Elevator, Police Continue to Investigate Death 
  
 "Fans are asking us whether Prince had a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Unfortunately, an application was never submitted for consideration," Martinez said in a statement to ET. "A posthumous nomination has a five-year waiting period in order to put forth paperwork for consideration. We hope his family will do that when the time comes." 
  
 Many fans were incredulous over the revelation. 
  
 "What's even more shocking to me is that #Prince didn't have a star on the #Hollywood Walk. What??" KTLA reporter Kimberly Cheng tweeted. 
  
 What's even more shocking to me is that #Prince didn't have a star on the #Hollywood Walk. What?? — Kimberly Cheng (@KimberlyChengTV) April 21, 2016 
  
 WATCH: Celebs React to Prince's Death 
  
 "Prince has no star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame but so far Liemert Park will hold a candlelight vigil today 6pm #prince #LA," tweeted KNBC anchor Michelle Valles. 
  
 Prince has no star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame but so 
  
 far Liemert Park will hold a candlelight vigil today 6pm #prince#LA — Michelle Valles (@MichelleNBCLA) April 21, 2016 
  
 According to BusinessInsider.com, the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce selects roughly 24 celebrities to receive their star each year. 
  
 The process begins with a nomination, which can come from "anyone from a publicist to a wealthy fan." Then, the nominee must agree in writing that they want a star and will be present for the unveiling ceremony. Once this is done, there is a $30,000 price tag to claim the honor. 
  
 WATCH: Prince's Autopsy Will Be Conducted on Friday 
  
 According to the Chamber of Commerce, half the money is for the star and the remainder is for the upkeep. 
  
 Along with Prince, other A-listers like Julia Roberts, Clint Eastwood, Denzel Washington and Al Pacino also do not have stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 
  
 See social media reactions to Prince's death: 
  
  ||||| FILE - In this Nov. 22, 2015 file photo, Prince presents the award for favorite album - soul/R&B; at the American Music Awards in Los Angeles. Prince, widely acclaimed as one of the most inventive and... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Nov. 22, 2015 file photo, Prince presents the award for favorite album - soul/R&B; at the American Music Awards in Los Angeles. Prince, widely acclaimed as one of the most inventive and influential musicians of his era with hits including "Little Red Corvette," ''Let's Go Crazy" and "When... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Nov. 22, 2015 file photo, Prince presents the award for favorite album - soul/R&B; at the American Music Awards in Los Angeles. Prince, widely acclaimed as one of the most inventive and influential musicians of his era with hits including "Little Red Corvette," ''Let's Go Crazy" and "When... (Associated Press) FILE - In this Nov. 22, 2015 file photo, Prince presents the award for favorite album - soul/R&B; at the American Music Awards in Los Angeles. Prince, widely acclaimed as one of the most inventive and... (Associated Press) 
  
 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Prince was unresponsive in an elevator when the musician was found by sheriff's deputies who had been called to his suburban Minneapolis compound, a Minnesota sheriff says. 
  
 Carver County Sheriff Jim Olson said deputies responded to a medical call about 9:43 a.m. Thursday. Medical personnel tried CPR, but couldn't revive the 57-year-old Prince, who was pronounced dead at 10:07 a.m. 
  
 A cause of death wasn't immediately determined. An autopsy was scheduled for Friday. 
  
 The singer's death came two weeks after he canceled concerts in Atlanta because he wasn't feeling well. He performed April 14 in Atlanta, apologizing to the crowd shortly after coming on stage. 
  
 Later on, while talking to the crowd between songs, he joked about having been "under the weather," giving a slight smile. His voice seemed a bit weak at times when he spoke, but he sounded fine when singing during his 80-minute show, which included everything from songs made famous by others ("Nothing Compares 2 U") to his finale to the first show of the evening, "Baby, I'm A Star." 
  
 He sat at his piano most of the show, but stood up at times to pound the keys and walked around the piano a couple of times, soaking up cheers. 
  
 Following news reports that he had fallen ill while returning from Atlanta to Minneapolis, Prince hosted a dance party on April 16 at his Paisley Park compound in Minnesota. 
  
 Jeremiah Freed, who runs the website drfunkenberry.com and has gotten to know Prince after writing about his events over the years, said he last saw Prince at the dance party. Freed said he believed Prince held the party to show everyone he was fine. 
  
 Freed didn't have one-on-one time with Prince that night, but Prince made a brief appearance. Freed said the artist showed off a new purple piano he received as a gift, as well as a purple guitar, but seemed upset about the reports of an illness. 
  
 "When he had to talk about the stories going on, he didn't seem too pleased. It was kind of like, 'I'm here. I'm good,'" Freed said, adding that Prince told the crowd: "Just wait a few days before saying your prayers." 
  
 Lars Larson, a 37-year-old Minneapolis man who had worked security for Prince and at Paisley Park events for about six years on and off, said he was at the same dance party. Larson said the singer was on stage briefly and spoke to the crowd before standing by the sound board for 20 minutes and then disappearing for the night. 
  
 "He seemed great. He looked like Prince," he said. "The whole point of the show on Saturday was to show he was doing all right." 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writers Paul Newberry in Atlanta and Kevin Burbach in Minneapolis contributed to this report, along with researcher Rhonda Shafner in New York. |||||