A family outing turned into a major archaeological discovery by one New Mexico 10-year-old who literally stumbled on a million-year-old fossil. 
  
 Jude Sparks was hiking the rugged New Mexico desert some five miles east of Las Cruces by the majestic Organ Mountains in November with his parents Kyle and Michelle and brothers, Hunter,8 and Rhett, 5. 
  
 Jude said he and his brothers were checking their hand-held radios when he tripped on something. 
  
 “I tripped on the bottom of the tusk and fell flat on my face,” Jude told Fox News. 
  
 LOCH NESS MONSTER REDUX? 'DINOSAUR-LIKE-CREATURE' REPORTEDLY SPOTTED IN NORTH CAROLINA LAKE 
  
 When he turned his head he was looking directly at part of what looked like a jaw bone. “It looked like large chunks of bone.” 
  
 Dusting himself off Jude quickly called Hunter who was nearer to the parents to come over to check out what he found. 
  
 The boys originally thought it looked like a large dark cow skull but when Kyle and Michelle arrived they knew it was something much more relevant than what is typically found in the desert. 
  
 Kyle said when he returned home he called Peter Houde, professor of Biology at nearby New Mexico State University. 
  
 ANCIENT LAND-DWELLING CROCODILE HAD T. REX SIZED TEETH, STUDY SHOWS 
  
 When Houde arrived at the site he was amazed at what young Jude tripped on. 
  
 “I think this is only the second full Stegomastodon skull found in the state of New Mexico,” Houde said. 
  
 There was another found at Elephant Butte State Park just north of Las Cruces about two years ago. 
  
 “That one lacks the jaw and it appears the ends of both tusks were broken off,” Houde told Fox News. “Ours includes the jaw but is missing one tusk so far - we may find it yet.” 
  
 DINO EXTINCTION ALLOWED FROGS TO CONQUER THE PLANET 
  
 According to Houde, there are only three nearly full Cuvieronius skulls, all of which were found in Bolivia in the early 1900's. He says this recent discovery is the most complete. 
  
 “Intact skulls of both of these are extremely rare and we've had unprecedented luck in obtaining the two,” Houde said of New Mexico’s unearthed prehistoric past. 
  
 He surmises the fossil Jude tripped over was unearthed by recent rains in the region but never the less, the irony of a youngster tripping over such a historic find while playing with his brothers is inescapable. 
  
 Houde said these mammoth animals are a primitive group of proboscideans ('elephantoids') from which modern elephants evolved. The recent discoveries are late-comers that were not ancestral to anything. 
  
 THE RISE OF THE DINOSAURS MAY HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY VOLCANOES, NEW STUDY FINDS 
  
 “Ours would look pretty much just like modern elephants if they were alive today although the Cuvieronius had spiral tusks,” Houde said. “Their legs might be a bit stubbier, but the main difference from elephants is in their molar teeth, reflecting a diet more based on browsing than that of modern elephants.” 
  
 Fossils of these animals exist especially in the southern United States, down through Central America, and in some cases into South America, but they are pretty universally represented by very scrappy bits of bone, teeth or tusks. 
  
 “They simply break into small bits as they weather out of the sediment before they are found. The preservation of ours is truly unusual, but a great deal of that may be due to the fact that we were able to locate them while they were still deep underground,” Houde said. 
  
 Houde said the fossil is in remarkably good shape. The exposure through the dirt did a little damage to a tusk, but nothing that can't fix. The fact that the jaw and skull were found next to one another suggests that there could be, or could have been, other parts of the skeleton preserved not far away. 
  
 THE SUN MAY HAVE HAD AN 'EVIL TWIN' THAT WIPED OUT THE DINOSAURS 
  
 Part of the delay in releasing information on the find was obtaining permission from the landowner to excavate the site. Kyle said the university requested they did not release any information until all of the pieces were in place which wasn't until just recently. 
  
 Kyle said there was quite a bit of logistical coordination involved. He said he and Houde decided to cover the specimen with dirt until approval could be obtained. 
  
 “We intend to look but we will not be allowed by the land owner to dig willy-nilly without good geological information about where we will likely be successful,” Houde said. “I'm waiting for our geologists to return from summer field schools to look into it.” 
  
 Houde said he isn’t very optimistic, saying bones get scattered far and wide and even if they were only 5-10 feet apart that would entail a lot of earth moving given the topography of this location. 
  
 FOLLOW FOX NEWS TECH ON FACEBOOK 
  
 But for one little boy, he has a summer memory that will last a lifetime. 
  
 “It’s amazing God chose us to find this,” he said. 
  
 Michelle said that the structure of Jude’s homeschooling program is part of a co-op that will allow him to share is exploits whit his peers who have already been calling wanting to know about the bone. 
  
 Correction: This story has been corrected to clarify that the fossil was not from a dinosaur. ||||| Triceratops Was Last Dinosaur Standing 
  
 The 65 million-year-old find suggests a meteor may have wiped out the dinosaurs in a sudden catastrophic event. ||||| NMSU experts dig up Las Cruces boy’s million-year-old fossil find 
  
 Date: 07/18/2017 
  
 Writer: Minerva Baumann, 575-646-7566, mbauma46@nmsu.edu 
  
 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Pinterest 
  
 A 10-year-old boy’s accidental discovery in the Las Cruces desert led a New Mexico State University professor to a rare, mostly intact 1.2 million year-old stegomastodon skull. 
  
 “I was running farther up and I tripped on part of the tusk,” said Jude Sparks, who had been hiking in the desert with his parents and testing walkie-talkies with his brothers when he came face-to-face with the fossil. “My face landed next to the bottom jaw. I looked farther up and there was another tusk.” 
  
  
  
 The Sparks family contacted NMSU biology professor Peter Houde in November after seeing him interviewed in a YouTube video about a similar fossil found several years ago in a Mesquite quarry about 10 miles south of campus. 
  
  
  
 “A stegomastodon would look to any of us like an elephant,” said Houde. “For the several types of elephants that we have in the area, this is probably one of the more common of them. But they’re still very rare. This may be only the second complete skull found in New Mexico.” 
  
  
  
 After the family contacted Houde, the jaw and two pieces of tusk were taken to the Vertebrate Museum at NMSU. In May, the family joined a team of students and professors who worked for about a week to carefully unearth the skull. 
  
  
  
 Houde explained it took some months to get permission to dig on the property from the landowner, who requested the site remain a secret. It also took time get the special chemicals needed to properly preserve the fossils. The College of Arts and Sciences provided funding for the process. 
  
  
  
 Houde applauded the Sparks family’s decision to do the right thing in contacting him about their find. He encourages others who might come across fossils to reach out to an expert rather than try to dig it up on their own. 
  
  
  
 “As you can imagine, when people find out about these things, they might be tempted to go out there and see what they might find themselves and tear up the land or they might hurt themselves,” Houde said. “To be quite honest, all these fossils from this area are radioactive and especially for children, not something you would want in your home.” 
  
  
  
 Houde estimates the jaw weighs about 120 pounds and the entire skull as little as a ton. And while the skull may appear to be strong, it is quite delicate. 
  
  
  
 “The upper part of the skull is deceiving. It’s mostly hollow and the surface of the skull is eggshell thin,” Houde said. “You can imagine an extremely large skull would be very heavy for the animal if it didn’t have air inside it to lighten it up just like our own sinuses. That makes the thing extremely fragile and the only thing holding it together is the sediment surrounding it. 
  
  
  
 “In fact when the sediments are removed from the sides of them, they start to fall apart immediately and literally fall into tiny, tiny bits. It has to be done carefully by somebody who knows how to go about doing it. It is a very deliberate process that takes a little bit of time.” 
  
  
  
 During the weeklong extraction process, 10 to 12 people helped at different times with the excavation of the stegomastodon skull. NMSU geology major Danielle Peltier assisted with painstaking process of gently brushing the last bits of dirt from the skull and tusk and applying chemical hardeners to ensure the ancient bones remained intact. Acting like plastics, the chemicals harden and restore the strength that would otherwise be present in the bone as protein. 
  
  
  
 “As we were brushing away the fossil as soon as we removed the sediment we needed to put a type of hardener on there to preserve the structural integrity, otherwise it would just crumble after a few days being left in the sun,” Peltier said. 
  
  
  
 Peltier, who will graduate in May 2018, plans to enter a Ph.D. track program and pursue a career as a paleontologist and academic. 
  
  
  
 “I’ve been fortunate to do field work in Las Cruces, at White Sands and in Kenya,” Peltier said. “It’s amazing to be able to travel, meet remarkable people and realize that you’re the first person to be looking at something that might be anywhere from 5,000 to 3 billion years old.” 
  
  
  
 After the skull was unearthed, the NMSU team carefully coated the fossil with plaster and placed wood braces to protect and support it. The skull was lifted from the dig site by a front-end loader and placed on a flatbed truck for the trip back to the university. 
  
  
  
 While the process to study and reconstruct the skull, jaw and tusks will take years to complete, Houde says the stegomastodon fossil will eventually go on display. 
  
  
  
 “I have every hope and expectation that this specimen will ultimately end up on exhibit and this little boy will be able to show his friends and even his own children, look what I found right here in Las Cruces.” 
  
  ||||| They sent an email to a biology professor at nearby New Mexico State University, Peter Houde. He recognized the find almost immediately: These were the remains of a long-extinct Stegomastodon, and Jude had tripped over its fossilized tusk. 
  
 Dr. Houde said he gets calls and emails about potential finds from time to time — often, they amount to nothing much. But this time, it was different. 
  
 “This is really very unusual to find,” he said, explaining that prehistoric remains are so fragile that they typically disintegrate shortly after erosion exposes them to the elements. The Sparkses simply got lucky by visiting the site shortly after strong rains had exposed the fossil. 
  
 When Dr. Houde and the Sparks family visited the remains one day after Jude’s discovery, they made sure to bury them again. After months of arranging a team, getting money and securing a permit, the skull was finally excavated in May. 
  
 The creature it belonged to lived at least 1.2 million years ago, Dr. Houde estimated. 
  
 Some have described Jude’s find as a dinosaur discovery, but it’s not. The Stegomastodon was an elephantine creature — not a mastodon, but similar in appearance — whose existence was relatively recent. It walked the earth within the last few million years and may have even been hunted by humans. |||||