The Swans are 15th in the Premier League after losing 1-0 against Southampton on Sunday.
Their only league win came away at Burnley on the opening day of the season.
"It doesn't look good because things are not right there," Ratcliffe told BBC Radio Wales.
"Guidolin is up against it now. They're in a relegation fight already this season, I'm afraid," he added.
For the second successive game, Guidolin faced questions over a player's reaction to being substituted.
The Italian apologised to defender Neil Taylor, who was taken off in their 2-2 draw with Chelsea a week earlier, but the Wales international did not feature against the Saints.
Following defeat at St Mary's, Guidolin said Ki Sung-yueng's "attitude" was "not good" as he was replaced by winger Jefferson Montero.
The South Korea captain looked unhappy and did not shake Guidolin's hand as he left the pitch.
Former Everton defender Ratcliffe said: "When the substitutions are being made, you can see the discontent the players have got with the manager at times.
"They're questioning his decision without asking him anything or saying anything to him - you can see it in their eyes in the way that they come off.
"Neil Taylor last week and this week once again. It's a bad loss and it's 1-0. It's flattering, it could have been more."
Ratcliffe also suggested Guidolin was slow to adjust the team's tactical approach at St Mary's.
"The manager's done nothing about it and when he does do something about it, it's too late - they've scored a goal," Radcliffe added.
"And then the other decisions - actually to bring off your captain Jack Cork, who, unless he's got an injury we're not aware of,  I have to question that decision."
Swansea's record signing, striker Borja Baston, came on for Cork in the 82nd minute while Angel Rangel took over from Stephen Kingsley at the break.
Ratcliffe added: "I don't know if Kinsgley's picked up an injury or that was tactical as well.
"But if they are tactical decisions, they're wrong. They're absolutely wrong.
"And you've got to question the manager. The manager for me does not inspire me, I must admit.
"When I hear him speak, is he the type of man I can play for? Maybe not.
"I just don't think they've got the zip or buzz about them that they've had in the past."
Ratcliffe also questioned Leroy Fer's regular appearances for the Swans since arriving in the summer.
"I'm not a big fan of Leroy Fer. I was never a big fan of his when he was at QPR," added Radcliffe.
"I was never a big fan of him at Norwich - he couldn't get into those sides. But all of a sudden he can get in this side. I'm not quite sure. It's a strange decision."
Swansea host current league leaders Manchester City twice this week, in the EFL Cup third round on Wednesday and again the Premier League on Saturday.
After that, Liverpool travel to Liberty Stadium before the Swans then travel to Arsenal in the league.
Subscribe to the BBC Sport newsletter to get our pick of news, features and video sent to your inbox.