Paul McGinn collected Jay O'Shea's pass, cut inside and fired into the top corner from 25 yards out to put the Spireites ahead at half-time.
Ian Henderson headed in Andy Cannon's free-kick after the break, and Cannon tapped in Dale's second soon after.
Nathaniel Mendez-Laing then secured all three points for the hosts when he turned in Calvin Andrew's cross.
Match ends, Rochdale 3, Chesterfield 1.
Second Half ends, Rochdale 3, Chesterfield 1.
Attempt saved. Ched Evans (Chesterfield) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt missed. Joe Bunney (Rochdale) header from very close range is close, but misses to the right.
Substitution, Rochdale. Joe Bunney replaces Calvin Andrew.
Corner,  Chesterfield. Conceded by Joe Thompson.
Attempt saved. Nathaniel Mendez-Laing (Rochdale) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Corner,  Rochdale. Conceded by Ryan Fulton.
Attempt saved. Calvin Andrew (Rochdale) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Corner,  Rochdale. Conceded by Gboly Ariyibi.
Calvin Andrew (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Gary Liddle (Chesterfield).
Calvin Andrew (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Connor Dimaio (Chesterfield).
Substitution, Rochdale. Joe Thompson replaces Donal McDermott.
Goal!  Rochdale 3, Chesterfield 1. Nathaniel Mendez-Laing (Rochdale) left footed shot from the left side of the six yard box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Calvin Andrew.
Corner,  Chesterfield. Conceded by Josh Lillis.
Attempt saved. Ched Evans (Chesterfield) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt missed. Donal McDermott (Rochdale) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Substitution, Chesterfield. Rai Simons replaces Jay O'Shea.
Corner,  Rochdale. Conceded by Paul McGinn.
Substitution, Rochdale. Nathaniel Mendez-Laing replaces Sanmi Odelusi.
Attempt saved. Ian Henderson (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Chesterfield. Curtis Morrison replaces Reece Mitchell.
Foul by Joseph Rafferty (Rochdale).
Gboly Ariyibi (Chesterfield) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Substitution, Chesterfield. Charlie Raglan replaces Ian Evatt because of an injury.
Goal!  Rochdale 2, Chesterfield 1. Andrew Cannon (Rochdale) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Donal McDermott.
Attempt missed. Ian Evatt (Chesterfield) right footed shot from the right side of the box misses to the right following a corner.
Corner,  Chesterfield. Conceded by Calvin Andrew.
Corner,  Chesterfield. Conceded by Joseph Rafferty.
Foul by Calvin Andrew (Rochdale).
Paul McGinn (Chesterfield) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Goal!  Rochdale 1, Chesterfield 1. Ian Henderson (Rochdale) header from very close range to the top right corner. Assisted by Jamie Allen.
Andrew Cannon (Rochdale) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Gary Liddle (Chesterfield).
Delay in match Andrew Cannon (Rochdale) because of an injury.
Second Half begins Rochdale 0, Chesterfield 1.
First Half ends, Rochdale 0, Chesterfield 1.
Attempt missed. Donal McDermott (Rochdale) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right from a direct free kick.