These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| A man who had been arrested at LAX airport early Friday morning was later subdued after causing a “disturbance” that alarmed flight attendants and an off-duty LAPD officer on an American Airlines flight to Honolulu. 
  
 Interested in Airlines? Add Airlines as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Airlines news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Add Interest 
  
 American Airlines said in a statement that law enforcement met the plane upon landing in Honolulu following the "disturbance" on the flight. The plane was escorted by two F-22 fighter jets for the duration of the flight following the disturbance, U.S. Pacific Command said in a statement. 
  
 F22's taking off from Honolulu to escort American Airlines flight 31 #Hawaii pic.twitter.com/8cauepQ7Yt — Anthony Quintano ?? (@AnthonyQuintano) May 19, 2017 
  
 Special Agents of the FBI Honolulu Field Office and local police responded ahead of the flight’s arrival and took a passenger into custody. The Department of Homeland Security is continuing to monitor all flights "out of an abundance of caution," it said. 
  
 About halfway through the flight, the passenger, identified as 25-year-old Turkish national Anil Uskanil, was headed towards the front of the plane. He had a blanket over his head and was mumbling, witnesses said. 
  
 It’s unclear how far towards the front of the plane he made it. Some eyewitnesses told ABC News that he tried to push his way through first class to the bathrooms, but was blocked by the beverage cart and a passenger. 
  
 Earlier on Friday, a source at the TSA told ABC News that the passenger was waiting for the bathroom near the cockpit when a flight attendant asked him to sit down. He had a laptop with him and appeared to try the cockpit door before he was subdued, the source said. 
  
 American Airlines has stated that he was "moving towards the cockpit." 
  
 But Paul Delacourt, special agent in charge at the FBI's Honolulu office, confirmed Friday night that the cockpit was not breached, nor did Uskanil even make it to the cockpit door. 
  
 After the disturbance, Uskanil was escorted back to his seat, where he was restrained with duct tape, according to witnesses. At no time during the incident was there any violence or significant struggle, witnesses said. He was later taken into custody for a medical evaluation. 
  
 LAX Police told ABC News that at 2:45 a.m. they received a radio call of a passenger moving through a Terminal 5 security door, which led to the airfield ramp. Uskanil, a ticketed passenger on an American Airlines flight who had passed through TSA security, was detained after being spotted. Police determined he had been drinking, but did not meet criteria for public drunkenness. Uskanil was arrested for misdemeanor trespassing, cited, given a pending court date, then released from custody. 
  
 American Airlines says Uskanil then went back thru a TSA checkpoint in Terminal 4 where his flight to Honolulu was leaving from and boarded the flight. The airline also says that he had bought his ticket for the Honolulu flight shortly after midnight at the airport ticket counter. 
  
 Law enforcement is now responding to analyze a suspicious item associated with Uskanil, a source told ABC News. The FBI's Delacourt, though, said no explosives were found onboard. 
  
 Flight 31 from Los Angeles landed safely at 11:35 a.m. local time, according to American Airlines. All passengers are off the plane and safe, and operations at the airport have resumed as normal. 
  
 A total of 181 passengers and six crew members were on board, according to the airline. 
  
 The incident is under investigation. Halting of all ground movements on the airfield as the flight came in caused a 30-minute backlog, the Department of Transportation said in a statement. The DOT expected the backlog to be resolved by the end of peak travel in the afternoon. 
  
 ABC News' Matt Gutman, Erin Dooley, Luis Martinez and Alex Stone contributed to this report. ||||| Fighter jets escorted an American Airlines plane to Honolulu after a passenger attempted to breach the hardened cockpit door. 
  
 Based on initial reports, the man placed a laptop by the entrance and tried to get through the reinforced barrier required on airliners following the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, said a person familiar with the matter. The Department of Homeland Security said it was prepared to help investigate the incident on Flight 31 from Los Angeles. 
  
 The most important business stories of the day. Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter. 
  
 The incident added to fears about flight safety as the Trump administration has warned of a heightened risk that terrorists could use laptops to conceal explosives. Homeland Security is considering banning electronic devices larger than mobile phones from airline cabins on flights from Europe to the U.S. A prohibition was adopted in March for flights from 10 Middle Eastern and North African airports. 
  
 American’s Airbus SE A321 jet landed safely at 11:35 a.m. local time, said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for the carrier. Video posted to social media showed officers, including one with an FBI shirt, taking a handcuffed man off the plane. 
  
 Feinstein, in a subsequent email to Bloomberg News, said the plane was cleared to resume commercial flights. 
  
 Pacific Command 
  
 During the flight, the pilots made a gradual descent from cruise altitude to lower levels out of precaution to limit the potential damage in the event there was an explosion, according to the official. While the severity of the threat was still unclear, U.S. Pacific Command scrambled two F-22 fighter jets to escort the airliner. 
  
 The passenger drew the attention of authorities at Los Angeles International Airport before the flight left because he appeared to be intoxicated, the official said. He was eventually allowed to board the flight, according to the official. 
  
 Airport police in Los Angeles said a 25-year-old man named Anil Uskanil went through a door from the Terminal 5 concourse that led to the airfield ramp. He was ticketed on American Airlines, the police said in a statement, without saying whether he was on Flight 31. 
  
 “Airport police investigated and determined Uskanil had been drinking but did not meet the criteria for drunk in public,” according to the statement. “Uskanil was arrested for misdemeanor trespassing, cited, given a pending court date and released from custody. ​“ 
  
 Police said officers responded to the call about Uskanil at about 2:45 a.m. in Los Angeles before being released. Flight 31 left the airport at 8:43 a.m., according to Flightaware.com 
  
 Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly has been briefed on the incident, the agency said in a statement. There are no other reports of flight disruptions, it said, without confirming details of what happened. 
  
 “The individual who disrupted the flight has been detained,” the department said. “DHS is prepared to assist other federal and local law enforcement agencies as they investigate the incident.” |||||