A disciplinary hearing in Cardiff heard that Lee Lewis, 33, led the girl into the cave for a "passionate kiss".
The outdoor pursuits leader at Cardiff and Vale College in Barry is then accused of starting a two-year sexual relationship with her.
He did not appear at the hearing, which is continuing.
The qualified medic and PT instructor faces seven counts of misconduct.
Mr Lewis began teaching the girl when she was 14 and spent one day a week at the college where Mr Lewis taught public services, the hearing was told.
The girl, referred to as Student A and now 18, said: "I found his power attractive.
"I thought it was thrilling, meeting up with him. He told me he was in the army, and was also a personal trainer.
"I wasn't comfortable because I wasn't sexually active before and I kept trying to avoid it. He told me he would train me."
The Education Workforce Council misconduct panel heard Mr Lewis used WhatsApp and Facebook to send "flirty" messages to the girl. describing her as "special and amazing".
The girl admitted she was "flattered" by the attention, which included trips in his car, visits to McDonalds and adventure days out with the college.
Student A said: "When I went on the rock climbing trip we ended up kissing in a cave. It was passionate."
The girl said they began a two-year sexual relationship. The hearing was told he asked her to keep it secret at first, saying he would lose his job.
In February 2015, the girl said Lewis become "emotionally abusive", accusing her of not spending enough time with him and threatening to expose their relationship to her mother.
Student A said Mr Lewis began stalking her and his behaviour became "controlling and manipulative".
She said: "I didn't want my family to know because I was ashamed at what I was doing."
She said she eventually told Mr Lewis it was over, but he began bombarding her with apologies and threatened to kill himself if she left him.
In June 2015 she told staff about the relationship and Mr Lewis was reported to education officials.
Her tutor, Joanna Hughes, told the hearing how the "bubbly and cheerful girl" became "fragile and vulnerable" during the course of the relationship, during which time she was regularly absent from college.