Hiker Gregg Hein of Clovis "entertained the idea" of possibly dying in the high Sierra of Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks as he lay severely injured for six days. 
  
 But he said the thought only crossed his mind a few times. The 33-year-old experienced hiker, rock climber and rafting guide was determined to live -- and he did. 
  
 From a wheelchair Tuesday at Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno, Hein talked about breaking his leg on July 5, hiking down from 13,600-foot Mount Goddard, and his eventual rescue Thursday by a National Park Service helicopter. 
  
 Hiking down the mountain, he dislodged a boulder that plowed into the back of his right calf, breaking bones in three spots. The impact forced bone to protrude about an inch and a half through the skin, Hein said. 
  
 His foot was soon "dangling," Hein said. "I had to grab it so hopefully it wouldn't rip off." 
  
 After sliding down several ice fields, he was without food for six days -- except for a few crickets and moths -- but he managed to drink a little melted ice and later, from a stream. 
  
 Rescue crews starting combing the high Sierra on Wednesday, the day Hein's dad, Doug Hein, called the Fresno County Sheriff's Office. Gregory Hein had been expected home two days earlier. 
  
 "I can't commend them enough for the efforts and the energies that they put out to try and save one person's life," Gregg Hein said of the rescue teams from Fresno County and the Park Service -- about 80 people in all -- who helped look for him. 
  
 Hein said Tuesday he has at least two more surgeries on his right leg to combat infection and repair bones, and that he could be in the hospital into next week. The eventual goal is to install a metal rod into his calf. 
  
 Hein has family ties to Clovis Unified: His mother is Randy Hein, principal of Temperance-Kutner Elementary School, and his grandfather is Floyd "Doc" Buchanan, former longtime district superintendent. 
  
 Hein's perilous trek began July 3. He parked his car at Florence Lake in Fresno County and within two days, had hiked alone more than 20 miles -- much of it cross-country -- to the summit of Mount Goddard. After summiting on July 5, he hoped to make it to Blayney Hot Springs that evening, but the goal was soon shattered with his leg. 
  
 Hein wasn't due home until July 7, and he said he realized he had at least three days to survive before anyone would start looking for him. 
  
 In an attempt to avoid potential rockfall, and knowing he had to get further down the mountain to find help, Hein left his backpack on the side of Mount Goddard. He grabbed only a few things from the pack: A poncho, pocket knife, cords, whistle and a bivvy sack -- a small, lightweight shelter. 
  
 He didn't take more because he miscalculated, believing he was closer to Evolution Valley, where he hoped he'd see hikers. 
  
 As he lay bleeding, Hein contemplated applying a makeshift tourniquet, a device used to tightly clench blood vessels connected to an injury. 
  
 It was a big decision: If he did, "I would have lost a limb." 
  
 By the time night fell, Hein wasn't feeling light-headed. So he took a chance and didn't cinch his leg. By the next morning, the bleeding had slowed significantly. 
  
 For four days, he lay near the edge of a small glacier, nursing his injury with ice. 
  
 Hein stabilized his leg with hiking poles, wrapping them with a belt and some cord, and on Wednesday, headed for Davis Lake -- crawling about a mile and dropping about 1,000 feet. He hoped the new location might increase his chance of being found. 
  
 On Thursday, he saw helicopters -- but they didn't see him. Two flew over him several times, he said. "It was kind of wrenching." 
  
 But around 7:30 p.m. Thursday, a Park Service helicopter landed about 50 feet from him at Davis Lake. The pilot was dropping off a search-and-rescue crew in the area when Hein came into view. 
  
 After seeing the crew spot him, "I laid down on my back for a while, and breathed a deep sigh of relief." 
  
 Alive and safe at Community Regional Medical Center, Hein has a lot to look forward to. He just finished his undergraduate degree in environmental studies at Humboldt State and hopes to attend the San Joaquin College of Law in Clovis. 
  
 The next time Hein treks into the wilderness -- which he says will "definitely" happen again -- he plans to be "more cautious about my own life." In the future, Hein plans to carry a reflective mirror, which can be used to signal rescue aircraft; a satellite-linked device, which can be used to alert rescuers about a location; and more medical supplies and gear. 
  
 Hein said backpackers should also apply for a wilderness permit so there is documentation of a proposed route, and make sure loved ones are aware of that route, too. 
  
 As for Hein's parents, there's just a "lot of relief" to see their son "alive, breathing, talking." 
  
 "I've been amazed at the outpouring of support from friends and family," father Doug Hein said. "It took a huge team, not just the searchers, but the prayer network, that helped bring him back." 
  
 The reporter can be reached at (559) 441-6386, cgeorge@fresnobee.com or @CarmenGeorge on Twitter. ||||| FRESNO, Calif. (AP) — A hiker who was stranded for six days in California's Sierra Nevada with a badly broken leg says survival mode kicked in when he treated his own injury and sought sustenance by eating crickets and moths, and drinking melting ice. 
  
 Gregg Hein, who broke his leg on a solo hike in the Sierra Nevada mountains, recovers at the Community Regional Medical Center in Fresno, Calif. on Wednesday, July 16, 2014. The 33-year-old hiker from... (Associated Press) 
  
 Recovering at a Fresno hospital, Gregg Hein, 33, said Wednesday that he was a couple days into a solo hike high in the Sequoia and Kings Canyon national parks northeast of Fresno when a large rock crushed his right leg above the ankle. 
  
 After letting out a yelp, the Clovis man said his first thought was treating his dangling leg and protruding bone to boost his chances of making it out alive. 
  
 "I have to get these next moments right," said Hein, an avid outdoorsman. "What do I do to make sure I have the best chance for a positive outcome?" 
  
 He briefly considered applying a tourniquet to stop the bleeding, a move that he knew would end with an amputation. 
  
 Rather, Hein said he used hiking gear to wrap and secure his leg, and then he scooted to a flat clearing with a good vantage point to wait for rescuers. He had left his heavy pack behind, and the few insects he could scour at arm's reach hardly filled him up. He blew a whistle, hoping its echoes would catch somebody's attention. 
  
 Back home, Doug Hein reported his son missing two days after he didn't return home as planned. Rescuers searched on foot and from the air. A helicopter crew eventually spotted the hiker July 10 and lifted him to safety. 
  
 Hein underwent two surgeries and expects two more in a healing process likely to take months. Five pins hold his bones in place, and his legs are covered with scrapes from the 150-foot fall he took in the accident. 
  
 Hein's father said he has warned his son against hiking alone, but that didn't keep him from two major expeditions, one covering 165 miles of wilderness. He's waiting for his son to recover to have another heart-to-heart conversation. 
  
 "I've got a long time to get him back home and get him cornered and say, 'Hopefully you've learned from this,'" Doug Hein said. 
  
 Gregg Hein said his risky days of hiking alone are behind him, but not his love of the outdoors. 
  
 "As soon as I can get back to trail running and hiking, I'll be out there," he said. "It's my community." |||||