For those who thought the battle to save Greece was all about a rag tag bunch of leftists finally seeing the light, Euclid Tsakalotos has made many think again. 
  
 At the eleventh hour, the Oxford-educated economist has emerged as Athens’ secret weapon, sounding every inch the man he was raised to be: a public school member of the British establishment. “It is rather surprising to the other side,” he says, the Greek parliament framed in the window of his eighth floor office. “But so, too, is the fact that I understand their economic arguments.” Phlegmatic, professorial, mild-mannered, Tsakalotos has spent the best part of 30 years in the ivory towers of Britain and Greece “engaging critically” with neoclassical economic thinking. 
  
 Eurozone talks end without deal as Greek proposals rejected Read more 
  
 No other training could have prepared him better for his role as the point man in negotiations between Athens and the international creditors propping up its near-bankrupt economy. “The fact that he also sounds like an aristocrat helps too,” said an insider in the Syriza party. “He speaks their language better than they do. At times it’s been quite amusing to watch.” 
  
 The son of a civil engineer who worked in the well-heeled world of Greek shipping, Tsakalotos was born in Rotterdam in 1960. When his family relocated to London, he was immediately enrolled at the exclusive London private school St Paul’s. A place at Oxford, where he studied PPE, ensued. The hurly burly world of radical left politics could not have been further away. “My grandfather’s cousin was general Thrasyvoulos Tsakalotos who led the other side, the wrong side, in the Greek civil war,” he said of the bloody conflict that pitted communists against rightists between 1946-49. “He expressed the fear that I might end up as a liberal, certainly not anything further to the left.” 
  
 Tsakalotos, who has written six books including The Crucible of Resistance, an analysis of Greece at the forefront of Europe’s economic crisis, embraced the left at Oxford when he joined the student wing of Greece’s euro communist party. What goaded him more than anything else was the treatment of the Greek left – who had led the resistance movement against Nazi occupation – after the second world war. “Greeks have had a lot to resist, civil war, dictatorship, authoritarianism,” he said. “But perhaps the most terrible thing was the unfairness with which the left was treated in the postwar period. We were the only nation where people who had participated in what had been a very important resistance movement were treated like pariahs while those who had collaborated with the Germans had it good. It was just so wrong.” 
  
 When he moved to Greece, with his Scottish wife in the early 1990s, he signed up with Synaspismos, the party that would become the central plank of Syriza. The anti-globalisation movement convinced him that there was a large segment of society that felt it was not expressed by political elites – one of Syriza’s many mantras. Like many on the Greek left, he believes Athens’ anti-austerity government speaks for the growing numbers across Europe who, subjected to the brutal vagaries of the market, feel excluded from decision-making. 
  
 With the understatement of an English gentleman, Tsakalotos admits that in his new position he is losing sleep. On Wednesday he declared that it would be nigh impossible for Greece to keep honouring its debts without a new cash-for-reform deal. 
  
 “We’ve squeezed all sources of liquidity from the wider public sector. At some point very soon the money will come to an end,” he said insisting that precisely because it had sequestered funds, the government had proved it was sincere about wanting a deal. “Syriza does not have a mandate to take Greece out of the eurozone, nor does it have a mandate to apply unworkable austerity. What we need is a deal that is viable, a deal that is good for Europe and Greece.” ||||| Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is counting on a change of style, if not necessarily substance, by turning to a longtime ally to seek a deal with creditors to keep his nation in the euro. 
  
 Euclid Tsakalotos was named finance minister to replace Yanis Varoufakis, who resigned Monday after more than five months of fruitless back-and-forth. An Oxford-educated economist who was previously deputy foreign minister, Tsakalotos had already begun to take a leading role in debt talks before Tsipras’s surprise referendum call brought them to a halt on June 27. 
  
 Tsipras is betting that a new, less confrontational face will help him bring German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders back to the table after Greeks voted to reject further austerity in Sunday’s vote. Varoufakis had vowed to “cut off my arm” rather than sign a bad deal, and was involved in a long series of spats with negotiating partners in his six months on the job. 
  
 “It’s an important symbolic and necessary move,” Famke Krumbmuller, an analyst at political consultancy Eurasia Group, said by e-mail. Creditors “now really need to see the trust restored by a serious and credible commitment from the Greek side to implement reforms,” she said. 
  
 Clock Ticks 
  
 Time is running short: Greek banks are almost out of cash and commerce is grinding to a halt in the absence of a new bailout deal and lifeline from the European Central Bank. Tsipras’s government has extended bank closures and capital controls through Wednesday to stem withdrawals. 
  
 Euclid Tsakalotos was named finance minister to replace Yanis Varoufakis 
  
 Unlike Varoufakis, who joined just before elections in January of this year, the new finance minister has been a member of Tsipras’s Coalition of the Radical Left, or Syriza, since 2004. He first won election to parliament in 2012. 
  
 Born in 1960 in the Netherlands -- the home of Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the group of euro-region finance ministers with whom Varoufakis sparred repeatedly -- Tsakalotos was educated in the U.K., at the universities of Sussex and Oxford, where he received his doctorate in 1989. Like the U.K.’s Conservative Party chancellor of the exchequer, George Osborne, he attended St. Paul’s, a London private school that traces its roots to the 15th century. 
  
 ‘Crucible of Resistance’ 
  
 Tsakalotos became more prominent in Greece’s debt negotiations in June as relations between Varoufakis and creditors worsened. Varoufakis today said he was resigning because “there was a certain preference” among some European governments that he be “absent” from the next round of talks, if and when they begin. 
  
 Though Tsakalotos’s button-downed style may help endear him to creditors, he’s still a staunch supporter of Syriza’s more radical policies and a harsh critic of European austerity, putting him on the opposite side of the ideological spectrum from key politicians including Germany’s Wolfgang Schaeuble. 
  
 “I don’t expect Tsakalotos’s appointment to lead to a significant change in Greece’s policies but his less confrontational approach should definitely help negotiations,” said Diego Iscaro, an economist at research group IHS Inc. 
  
 The new minister’s likely approach to talks can be divined from the most recent book. Co-written with the economist Christos Laskos, it was titled “The Crucible of Resistance: Greece, the Eurozone and the World Economic Crisis” and printed by self-described “radical publisher” Pluto Press. 
  
 It criticized “permanent austerity” and argued that Syriza represents a model for other European countries to emulate. The book was endorsed, among others, by Varoufakis. 
  
 Read this next: ||||| Greece has a new finance minister following the resignation of Yanis Varoufakis early Monday. 
  
 The government announced on Monday that the new minister is Euclid Tsakalotos, who was previously minister of international financial relations. Tsakalotos has been leading negotiations with Greece's creditors since late April, when it became clear that the Eurogroup had various problems with Varoufakis's negotiating style. 
  
 Tsakalotos was one of just a few on a short list for the position. That list also included the economy minister, George Stathakis, according to Reuters. 
  
 It seems like the decision was an easy one. Tsakalotos is an Oxford-educated university professor, and has been described as the "'big brain' of economic policy" for Greece's Syriza government. 
  
 In a farewell blog post, Varoufakis wrote, "I consider it my duty to help Alexis Tsipras exploit, as he sees fit, the capital that the Greek people granted us through yesterday’s referendum. And I shall wear the creditors’ loathing with pride." ||||| Tsakalotos, an Oxford University educated economist who also serves as Deputy Foreign minister, has already forged relationships with the likes of European Central Bank Mario Draghi after meeting late last month and so is well-placed to pick up talks quickly, according to analysts. 
  
 "Varoufakis had become toxic and had to go. Tsakalotos has been a key part of the negotiating team. He is one of the most sensible/moderate figures in Syriza and his appointment would increase the chances for a sensible negotiation, and a positive outcome," said economist at ICBC Standard Bank, Demetrios Efstathiou. 
  
 Read MoreMohamed El-Erian: Grexit 'high probability' 
  
 "Greece is at five minutes before midnight, and Tsipras' renewed confidence could lead to the irrational - a deal," he added. 
  
  
  
 As Greece faces a fresh round of talks with Tsakalotos after he is sworn on Monday, we take a look at his credentials. |||||