Netflix on Wednesday released a new teaser for House of Cards' sixth season — and it finally reveals the fate of Kevin Spacey's character, Frank Underwood. 
  
 Spacey was fired from the show last fall due to allegations of sexual abuse made by multiple men. Since then, nobody was sure exactly how the Netflix series would handle Underwood's absence, given he was the show's main character. 
  
 This new teaser confirms that, as you might expect, Underwood is dead in the new season. The brief video released on Twitter shows Robin Wright's Claire Underwood standing over her husband's grave, saying, "I'll tell you this, though, Francis. When they bury me, it won't be in my backyard. And when they pay their respects, they'll have to wait in line." 
  
 Underwood's tombstone is then revealed; he's buried next to his father, who died of a heart attack at a young age. Fans have speculated that the former president will die of a heart attack like his father. 
  
 House of Cards' sixth and final season will premiere on Netflix on Nov. 2. You can watch the quick clip below. Brendan Morrow ||||| You should have known. pic.twitter.com/UFGplyDSY1 — House of Cards (@HouseofCards) September 5, 2018 
  
 It seems like we finally have some(?) clarity on the status of Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey) in the final season of House of Cards: He. Dead. 
  
 Or is he? Could this be a dream sequence? 
  
 Netflix 
  
 It’s not unsurprising given that Spacey and Cards parted ways after sexual misconduct claims against the actor surfaced last fall. The Cards team decided to continue on an finish the final season without Spacey and, it seems, Frank. 
  
 Claire Underwood (Robin Wright) ended season 6 as the President and it appears she’s determined to build a legacy that will stand the test of time. 
  
 Standing in front of Frank’s grave (he’s buried next to his father), she says coldly, “I’ll tell you this, though, Frances. When they bury me, it won’t be in my backyard. And when they pay their respects, they’ll have to wait in line.” 
  
 House of Cards returns on Nov. 2 on Netflix. |||||