LEXINGTON, N.C. (AP) — An inmate who authorities say escaped from a North Carolina lockup with the help of a prison employee has been recaptured, according to a state prisons spokeswoman. 
  
 An undated photo provided by the North Carolina Department of Public Safety shows Kendra Lynette Miller. MIller, a kitchen worker at a North Carolina prison is being charged with helping a convicted murderer... (Associated Press) 
  
 In a photo provided by the North Carolina Department of Public Safety, Kristopher McNeil appears in a photo, date not known. McNeil, a convicted murderer, escaped from Brown Creek Correctional Institution... (Associated Press) 
  
 Kristopher McNeil, 29, was in custody in the Davidson County Jail, Department of Public Safety Communications Director Pamela Walker said early Monday morning. 
  
 Authorities have said McNeil, who was serving a sentence for second-degree murder, escaped Saturday. A day later, a 33-year-old prison kitchen worker was charged with helping him escape. 
  
 Citizens recognized McNeil from media reports and called law enforcement late Sunday, Walker said. He was picked up walking along a road near the Davidson/Forsyth County line in central North Carolina, more than 80 miles north of Polkton, where he'd been incarcerated in the Brown Creek Correctional Institution, according to Walker. 
  
 "We appreciate the many law enforcement agencies working closely by the department's side working to get McNeil back in custody," Director of Prisons George Solomon said in a statement. "We are especially grateful to the citizens who called in tips and anyone who aided in his capture without anyone getting hurt." 
  
 McNeil, who had been scheduled for release in 2018, will be taken to Central Prison in Raleigh, Walker said. He will face escape charges which could add one to three years to his sentence, Walker said. 
  
 Kendra Lynette Miller, 33, who began working at the Polkton prison in December, faces multiple charges connected to Saturday's escape, including harboring a fugitive and aiding and abetting a fugitive. 
  
 Miller is also charged with having sex with an inmate and providing a cellphone. An Anson County Jail official said Sunday she did not have a lawyer. Her bond was set at $500,000, prison officials said. 
  
 Miller and McNeil are believed to have worked in the prison kitchen together, Walker said. Prison authorities believe McNeil scaled the fence at the minimum-security unit of Brown Creek, about 45 miles east of Charlotte. 
  
 In 2009, McNeil agreed to plead guilty to second-degree murder and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon after initially being charged with first-degree murder, the Winston-Salem Journal reported. He was accused of killing Lancelot "Bobby" Muir, 44, who was found shot to death along a creek near his girlfriend's home. Muir was awaiting trial on cocaine trafficking charges at the time of his death. 
  
 Details of McNeil's escape and capture came as law officers shot and captured the second of two convicted murderers who broke out of a maximum-security prison in northern New York three weeks ago. 
  
 Prosecutors said Joyce Mitchell, a prison tailoring shop instructor at the Clinton Correctional Facility who got close to the men while working with them, was charged with promoting prison contraband, which authorities said included hacksaw blades and chisels. She agreed to be their getaway driver after their escape, but backed out. Mitchell has pleaded not guilty to the charges. ||||| In a case strikingly similar to the escape of Richard Matt and David Sweat in upstate New York, convicted murderer Kristopher Antonio McNeil escaped a North Carolina prison with the help of a prison worker and was captured Sunday night, authorities said Sunday. 
  
 McNeil, 29, was discovered missing Saturday morning from Brown Creek Correctional Institute in Polkton, about 40 miles southeast of Charlotte, the state Department of Public Safety said Sunday afternoon. Investigators expanded their search area Sunday from Winston-Salem, where McNeil has family, east to the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill area. 
  
 McNeil was behind bars again late Sunday night after witnesses identified him from media reports walking along a highway road near the Davidson-Forsyth county line. He was captured just before 11 p.m. Sunday, police said. 
  
 "We are especially grateful to the citizens who called in tips and anyone who aided in his capture without anyone getting hurt," state Prisons Director George Solomon said Sunday. 
  
 Kendra Lynette Miller, in her arrest photo, is charged with aiding and abetting a fugitive, harboring a fugitive and having sex with an inmate, all of them felonies, and providing an electronic device to an inmate. Anson County, North Carolina, jail 
  
 A prison food service worker, Kendra Lynette Miller, 33, was charged Sunday with aiding and abetting a fugitive, harboring a fugitive and having sex with an inmate, all of them felonies, and providing an electronic device to an inmate, the public safety agency said. Anson County court records indicated that the electronic device Miller allegedly gave to McNeil was a cellphone. 
  
 Miller was being held in the Anson County jail in lieu of $500,000 bail pending a July 7 hearing. 
  
 "Unprofessional conduct by correctional staff will not be tolerated," Solomon said. "We will pursue criminal charges and support prosecution to the fullest extent of the law." 
  
 McNeil, who was convicted in 2007 of second-degree murder and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, was scheduled to be released in 2018. State penal records show he has a long and occasionally violent criminal history, including convictions for assaulting a public official, breaking and entering, resisting arrest and carrying a concealed weapon. ||||| POLKTON, NC (WNCN) — The North Carolina Department of Public Safety and local law enforcement officers are on the lookout for an escaped inmate from a facility in Anson County. 
  
 And, on Sunday, they say a woman who worked at the prison had sex with the escapee — and helped him escape. 
  
 UPDATE! NC inmate recaptured; prison worker charged with sex with inmate 
  
 The NC Dept. of Public Safety says the inmate, Kristopher McNeil, was discovered missing just after midnight Saturday morning. Investigators believe he scaled the fence of the Brown Creek Minimum Unit in Polkton, about 45 miles east of Charlotte. 
  
 McNeil, age 34, was serving a 14-year sentence for second degree murder. He was scheduled for release in 2018 and might be headed for the Triad, where he has family and friends, officials say. 
  
 Sunday morning, Polkton Police charged Kendra Lynette Miller, age 33, with sex with an inmate, providing an electronic device to an inmate, harboring a fugitive and aiding and abetting a fugitive. 
  
 Bond for Miller is set at $500,000. 
  
 “Miller has been a food service officer since December 2014 at the facility from which McNeil escaped,” officials said in a press release. 
  
 Later Sunday, official said that McNeil may be in Forsyth County. McNeil has family and friends in Winston Salem. 
  
 “While they are following all leads and looking for him in multiple areas, they have increased their focus to the Triad,” officials said. 
  
 Anyone with information is asked to contact local law enforcement or the Brown Creek Correctional Institution at (704) 694-2622 
  
 .A joint investigation by the Department of Public Safety, the SBI and the Polkton Police Department led law enforcement to charge a correctional officer with multiple charges in connection to the escape of Kristopher McNeil. |||||