An undated graphic shows the tunnel that may lead to a royal tombs discovered underneath the Quetzalcoatl temple in the ancient city of Teotihuacan in this October 29, 2014 National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) handout picture. 
  
 Stone figurines are seen in a tunnel that may lead to a royal tombs discovered at the ancient city of Teotihuacan, in this May 22, 2014 National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) handout picture made available to Reuters October 29, 2014. 
  
 Stone figurines are seen in a tunnel that may lead to a royal tombs discovered at the ancient city of Teotihuacan, in this November 19, 2013 National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) handout picture made available to Reuters October 29, 2014. 
  
 MEXICO CITY A sacred tunnel discovered in the ancient Mexican city of Teotihuacan is filled with thousands of ritual objects and may lead to royal tombs, the lead Mexican archaeologist on the project said on Wednesday. 
  
 The entrance to the 1,800-year-old tunnel was first discovered in 2003, and its contents came to light thanks to excavations by remote-control robots and then human researchers, archeologist Sergio Gomez told reporters. 
  
 The site is located about 30 miles (50 km) northeast of Mexico City. The ruins have long been shrouded in mystery because its inhabitants did not leave behind written records. 
  
 The artifacts found inside the tunnel, located below the Temple of the Plumed Serpent, include finely carved stone sculptures, jewelry and shells. 
  
 An estimated 50,000 objects, 4,000 made of wood as well as scores of obsidian blades and arrow heads, provide clues into how the city's priests and rulers conceived the underworld. 
  
 "Due to the magnitude of the offerings that we've found, it can't be in any other place," said Gomez, who works for Mexico's national anthropology and history institute, referring to the possibility of finding royal tombs. 
  
 "We've been able to confirm all of the hypotheses we've made from the beginning," he added, saying ongoing excavations could yield more major discoveries next year. 
  
 One of Mexico's most-visited ancient sites, Teotihuacan is home to massive pyramids, temples and elite residences including many adorned with colorful murals. 
  
 The city reached its peak between 100 B.C. and 650 B.C. with a population as large as 200,000, growing rich from a wide-ranging trade in obsidian that in pre-Colombian times was used to make knives and other weapons. 
  
 The city had long been abandoned by the time the Aztecs came to power in the Valley of Mexico in the 14th century, yet it continued to play an important role as a destination for religious pilgrimages. 
  
 In Nahuatl, the Aztec language still spoken in many parts of Mexico, Teotihuacan means "abode of the gods." 
  
 (Writing by David Alire Garcia; Editing by Simon Gardner and Cynthia Osterman) ||||| Some 50,000 relics have been discovered in Mexico in the ancient city of Teotihuacan, Mexican archaeologists say. 
  
 The city, located about 50 km (30 miles) northeast of Mexico City, dominated central Mexico in pre-Columbian times. 
  
 Image copyright AFP 
  
 The relics found include jewellery, seeds, animal bones and pottery like these human figurines. 
  
 Image copyright AFP 
  
 The objects were found inside a sacred tunnel that was sealed about 1,800 years ago. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters 
  
 The entrance of the tunnel was discovered in 2003 and its contents came to light after the archaeologists worked meticulously for nine years. 
  
 Image copyright AFP 
  
 The researchers dug out mountains of dirt and rocks, using remote-control robots, and found zoomorphic vessels like this. 
  
 Image copyright AFP 
  
 The artefacts, like these sea shells, were unearthed from about 18 metres (60 feet) below the Temple of the Plumed Serpent, the third largest pyramid at Teotihuacan. 
  
 Image copyright AP 
  
 At the end of the tunnel, the archaeologists also discovered offerings just before three chambers, suggesting that the remains of city's ruling elite could be buried there. 
  
 Image copyright EPA 
  
 Such a discovery could help shine light on the leadership structure of Teotihuacan, including whether rule was hereditary. 
  
 The ancient city is the largest pre-Columbian archaeological site in the Americas, but its ruins have long been shrouded in mystery because its inhabitants did not leave behind written records. ||||| MEXICO CITY (AP) — A yearslong exploration of a tunnel sealed almost 2,000 years ago at the ancient city of Teotihuacan yielded thousands of relics and the discovery of three chambers that could hold more important finds, Mexican archaeologists said Wednesday. 
  
 This May 22, 2014 photo released by Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) shows sculptures unearthed at the Teotihuacan archeological site in Mexico. Mexican archaeologists have... (Associated Press) 
  
 This May 22, 2014 photo released by Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), shows sculptures and shells unearthed by investigators at the Teotihuacan archeological site in Mexico.... (Associated Press) 
  
 This Nov. 19, 2013 photo released by Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), shows sculptures unearthed by investigators at the Teotihuacan archeological site in Mexico. Mexican... (Associated Press) 
  
 This Aug. 6, 2014 photo released by Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) shows a sculpture unearthed at the Teotihuacan archeological site in Mexico. Mexican archaeologists... (Associated Press) 
  
 This Oct. 2, 2014 photo released by Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) shows shells unearthed by investigators at the Teotihuacan archeological site in Mexico. Mexican archaeologists... (Associated Press) 
  
 Project leader Sergio Gomez said researchers recently reached the end of the 340-foot (103-meter) tunnel after meticulously working their way down its length, collecting relics from seeds to pottery to animal bones. 
  
 A large offering found near the entrance to the chambers, some 59 feet (18 meters) below the Temple of the Plumed Serpent, suggests they could be the tombs of the city's elite. 
  
 "Because this is one of the most sacred places in all Teotihuacan, we believe that it could have been used for the rulers to ... acquire divine endowment allowing them to rule on the surface," Gomez said. 
  
 Unlike at other pre-Columbian ruins in Mexico, archaeologists have never found any remains believed to belong to Teotihuacan's rulers. Such a discovery could help shine light on the leadership structure of the city, including whether rule was hereditary. 
  
 "We have not lost hope of finding that, and if they are there, they must be from someone very, very important," Gomez said. 
  
 So far Gomez's team has excavated only about 2 feet (60 centimeters) into the chambers. A full exploration will take at least another year. 
  
 Initial studies by the National Institute of Anthropology and History show the tunnel functioned until around A.D. 250, when it was closed off. 
  
 Teotihuacan long dominated central Mexico and had its apex between 100 B.C. and A.D. 750. It is believed to have been home to more than 100,000 people, but was abandoned before the rise of the Aztecs in the 14th century. 
  
 Today it is an important archaeological site on the outskirts of Mexico City and a major tourist draw known for its broad avenues and massive pyramids. |||||