James Harrison believes he has grown since being arrested in 2008, according to Scott Brown of ESPN. Harrison, who recently signed a one-year deal with the Pittsburgh Steelers, was arrested for hitting his girlfriend and charged with simple assault and criminal mischief. Both charges were misdemeanors and were eventually dropped. 
  
 "It was something that happened, an unfortunate situation, and right or wrong everybody makes mistakes," Harrison said following his first practice since re-signing with the Steelers on Tuesday. "I learned from it and grew from it and I'm where I'm at now." 
  
 Before the Steelers brought Harrison back into the fold, head coach Mike Tomlin sat down and talked with Harrison on the current state of the league. The NFL has recently been rocked by scandals involving domestic violence, most notably cases including Ray Rice, Greg Hardy and Ray McDonald. 
  
 Rice is under indefinite suspension and Hardy was placed on the exempt list, allowing him to be paid but not to participate with his team. McDonald is still playing for the San Francisco 49ers, who are waiting for the legal system to play out. 
  
 Harrison could be active this Sunday against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, although the amount of playing time he might receive is uncertain. Harrison won two Super Bowls in 2005 and 2008 with the Steelers, along with a Defensive Player of the Year award. ||||| Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison doesn't expect a trophy just for showing up. The same goes for his sons. 
  
 The 2008 NFL Defensive Player of the Year took to Instagram on Saturday to say he was returning two awards his sons James III and Henry received from a local athletics event run by former Steelers quarterback Charlie Batch. 
  
 FREE APPS | NOW | FACEBOOK | TWITTER 
  
 Stories of the day... 
  
 Harrison wrote while he's very proud of his two boys -- who are both in elementary school -- "these trophies will be given back until they EARN a real trophy." 
  
 The 37-year-old says he doesn't want his sons to feel entitled, adding "cause sometimes your best is not enough, and that should drive you to want to do better." 
  
 I came home to find out that my boys received two trophies for nothing, participation trophies! While I am very proud of... Posted by James Harrison on Saturday, August 15, 2015 
  
 On Monday, several of Harrison’s teammates said they applauded him for the post. 
  
 “The whole team room clapped at that,” linebacker Jordan Zumwalt told Channel 11’s Bill Phillips. “You don’t get trophies for participating.” 
  
 Zumwalt said Harrison's post didn't surprise him. 
  
 “I laughed and thought it was a very James thing to do,” Zumwalt said. “I figure, I don’t have kids, so I’ll cross that bridge when I come to it.” 
  
 Steelers wide receiver Darius Heyward-Bey also told Phillips he supported Harrison. 
  
 “He can raise his kids the way he wants to. I kind of agree with him,” Heyward-Bey said. “You know, in this world, you’ve got to earn things.” 
  
 RELATED CONTENT: ||||| Best of the Batch Foundation is a nonprofit organization devoted to improving the lives of children and families in distressed communities by building character, self-esteem, and appreciation for education. Currently serving southwestern Pennsylvania, Best of the Batch Foundation does good works, such as scholarships to college-bound students and a yearly back-to-school BatchPack book bag distribution to kids and teachers. Best of the Batch also offers programming that couples sports with learning—such as the seven week summer basketball camp where participating boys and girls attend study halls where they read and discuss pre-selected books. 
  
 Founded by NFL quarterback Charlie Batch in 1999, Best of the Batch Foundation embodies Charlie's values of dedication, leadership, and trust. Over the years, Charlie has leveraged his status as a Pittsburgh Steeler to attract and engage young people. Every program at Best of the Batch affirms the value of his personal motto--the 5 P's--in all aspects of life: proper preparation prevents poor performance. His passion is to unlock the potential of children and their families by providing resources to educate and empower them to give their best efforts in all they do...to be the best of the batch in life. 
  
 CLICK HERE to download Best of the Batch of the Batch Foundation Fact Sheet pdf 
  
 Let me say something about Charlie Batch. …The great thing about Charlie is that he’s not just a football player but really cares about this community. He established Best of the Batch Foundation to assist local youth and hosts Project C.H.U.C.K, an annual youth basketball league in Homestead. I can vouch for the fact that Charlie loves kids.—Dan Rooney ||||| LATROBE, Pa. -- James Harrison has sacked quarterbacks 71.5 times in his career. 
  
 Never has he struck something quite like this. 
  
 What started as an Instagram post over the weekend has mushroomed into a parenting discussion about whether sports participation deserves a trophy. 
  
 When CNN gets involved, the story has transcended normal NFL fandom. 
  
 Does sports participation deserve a trophy? Let the parental debate begin! @kellywallacetv http://t.co/DXhDMQG41y pic.twitter.com/jo6Juqum3Y — CNN Health (@cnnhealth) August 18, 2015 
  
 Like most things, there’s more to the Harrison trophy story. His sons were recipients of student-athlete awards for good grades as part of the Best of the Batch Foundation, run by Harrison’s former teammate, now-retired quarterback Charlie Batch. Upholding a certain standard in the classroom is part of the program. 
  
 That’s not what drew interest. Harrison’s words on the topic were pointed, and they came at a time when the everyone-gets-a-trophy notion had bubbled to the mainstream. If Harrison hits send on this message two years ago, the reaction might have been tame. Not now. Harrison told ESPN on Sunday he's successfully returned the trophies but didn't answer follow-up questions as he entered a loud haze of autograph-seekers at training camp. 
  
 Harrison is taking a stand on something to which on some level every parent can relate. There doesn’t seem to be mass outrage against Harrison’s stance, or at least I haven’t seen that. After following the story on social media, many take the stand of indifference while appreciating why Harrison might feel this way. After all, he was a former Kent State walk-on has been cut twice and played a season in NFL Europe early in his career. One fan outside Steelers’ practice Sunday yelled to Harrison, “I appreciate what you’re teaching your sons.” 
  
 ESPN’s Mike Greenberg from Mike and Mike used the story line to draw attention to the need for kids’ participation in activities, whether they receive trophies or not. 
  
 By snapping a picture and posting the trophies on Instagram with his own message, Harrison has stirred a debate about the concept of rewarding children in athletics and whether benchmarks should be appropriate for those rewards. 
  
 There doesn’t’ seem to a right or wrong answer. 
  
 This story is all about timing and resonance. It's also emblematic of how sports coverage has shifted. A story like this can draw more interest than player injuries and coaching changes because it affects people on a human level. It also elicits the sort of he-did-what reaction that social media is made for. 
  
 Who knows if Harrison will go anywhere else with this story, though holding up a Lombardi in six months would be an entertaining response. ||||| The Positive Reaction to James Harrison’s Stance on Participation Trophies Proves PC Isn’t Popular 
  
 RUSH: James Harrison. I mentioned this at the very beginning of the program yesterday and I said at the end of the program yesterday that we were going to get into it in more detail today, and, lo and behold, here we are. Now, if you missed it, James Harrison is number 92 and an outside linebacker for the Pittsburgh Steelers. It’s the 3-4 defense, which means he rushes the passer. He is one of the most feared linebackers in the National Football League. He’s one of the most fined. 
  
  
  
 The man has been through a success track that are like the myths you hear, except his is true. His dad was a truck driver. He wanted to play football. He went to Kent State. I don’t think he was drafted. He shows up at the Steelers as a free agent. They cut him; I think they cut him twice. He keeps coming back. He keeps trying, finally makes the team, stays on the team as a backup, and finally after being with them four or five years gets the chance to start in the last game of the season. 
  
 They’re going to the playoffs, the last game is meaningless, and I think it’s against the Buffalo Bills, and if the Bills win this game… The Steelers have no reason to win. They don’t need to win to get to the playoffs. Their slot is already determined. But the Bills need to win to get in. The Steelers are playing their second-string scrubs; they end up winning. James Harrison has a break-out game and it was all over from that point. 
  
 If you’ve watched Super Bowls, you remember James Harrison with a 99-yard return for a touchdown interception off Kurt Warner over in Tampa, game against the Arizona Cardinals. Anyway, what happened was Harrison came home and discovered that his two sons had been given participation trophies. And he flipped out. In his world you don’t get a trophy for showing up. In his world you don’t get a trophy for trying hard. 
  
 In his world you only get a trophy when you succeed something, and you succeed at something that’s rare and become a champion. So he took a picture of the two participation trophies and he posted them on Instagram, and he said, “I came home to find out that my boys received two trophies for nothing, participation trophies. While I’m very proud of my boys for everything they do and I’ll encourage them to the day I die, these trophies will be given back until they earn a real trophy.” 
  
 And then he writes this: “I’m not sorry for believing that everything in life should be earned, and I’m not about to raise two boys to be men by making them believe they’re entitled to something just because they tried their best, because sometimes your best isn’t enough, and that should drive you to want to do even better, not cry and whine until somebody gives you something to shut you up and keep you happy.” 
  
 He concluded with a hashtag: #HarrisonFamilyValues. 
  
 Now, this could have gone any number of ways. In our supposedly… It’s an important qualifier there. In our supposedly dominated-by-political correctness world, what should have happened is that James Harrison should have been written out of polite society, because this is a violation of everything. Political correctness has inserted itself in the sense of raising children, in school. There are no winners and there are no losers because they don’t keep score. 
  
 There are no starters and there are no bench players because everybody plays. 
  
  
  
 You get trophies for simply showing up. 
  
 We are never allowed to crown champions because not everybody can be one and to do so humiliates those who lose, and we will not do that. 
  
 This is supposedly the law of the land. Supposedly everybody falls in line with it. And you would think that James Harrison would be just excoriated, just ripped to shreds. But it didn’t happen. The overwhelming response to James Harrison was overwhelming, unilateral support. It’s a teachable moment here folks. I want to take you back. I want to listen to something I said on this program way, way back on May 1st of this year. Now, it happened to be a comment made during the controversial moments of gay marriage, but it relates. You’ll see. Here it is… 
  
 BEGIN ARCHIVE CLIP 
  
 RUSH ARCHIVE: How can such a small number of people come to so dominate the American political system? How can less than a million people cause the havoc that they caused in Indiana recently? How can so few people end up closing down businesses, like flower shops or bakeries or photo shops or what have you. … It’s fascinating to me to watch it transpire and watch hardly any opposition rise up against it. It’s the only way it can happen. No push-back. And it’s exactly what is happening. 
  
 We are being run, this country is being run by a veritable minority, and that is of liberalism. Liberals are a minority of thought. The percentage of the country that’s liberal is less than 50. It’s not a majority. But, where are they? They are in the classroom. They’re running colleges, universities, high schools, school systems. They’re running the media: News, movies, books, television shows. So the impression — particularly with the control of the media, the impression is — that they are much larger in number than they are, much more widespread than they are, and much more powerful than they are. 
  
 END ARCHIVE CLIP 
  
  
  
 RUSH: By the way, I think contained in this is an answer so many people are asking about Trump. “How in the world can Trump be doing so well?” The answer is he’s just nuking all of that. Trump is not putting up with it. He’s not being bullied by “minorities;” not permitting himself to be bullied. He’s taking it to them. There isn’t anything politically correct about him. And everything else, in addition to what he’s doing in immigration, all these other things he’s taking on, the very fact that Donald Trump may beat back political correctness and signal everybody that it’s okay to do that could be one of the biggest wins out of this whole thing. 
  
 Political correctness is censorship, it is stifling, and it is bullying, and it’s being practiced by a veritable minority of people! And Trump is not allowing himself to be steamrollered. And to show you that I think it is a minority, here’s a montage of all the people in the media… I mean from ESPN! Liberals at ESPN, liberals in the media. It’s a montage of people commenting on James Harrison making his sons give back their participation trophies. 
  
 BOB RYAN: Bravo to James Harrison!. He is absolutely right about this. 
  
 MICHAEL WILBON: His kids are going to be angry with him, and hopefully better off down the road. 
  
 LISA KENNEDY MONTGOMERY: This is the right message! 
  
 DANA PERINO: I think he’s absolutely right. 
  
 STEPHEN A. SMITH: I completely, 1,000% agree with James Harrison. I think he’s right on the money with this. 
  
 SKIP BAYLESS: If I did have kids and they brought those trophies home to me IÂ’d say, “Get rid of them.” 
  
 DAMIEN WOODY: I understand exactly what James Harrison is talking about. Not everybody can be winner. 
  
 JEMELE HILL: As somebody who started every year I was in high school, I would have been outraged by receiving a participation trophy. 
  
 CAROL COSTELLO: You know, actually do something to like earn the trophy. 
  
 WOMAN: (guffawing) 
  
 CAROL COSTELLO: (laughter) I think he’s going to be Father of the Year. 
  
 RUSH: Look! It’s a perfect example of what I’m saying! Here you have a series of leftists all over the media agreeing? You would think they would back up the PC version. You would think these are the people that would rake Harrison over the coals for being insensitive and not understanding the plight of children, how they all can’t be champions and so forth, and yet everybody falls in line. I’m telling you, the people running this PC scam like everybody running this scam of liberalism is a tiny bunch, the hardcore are a minority, and Trump is illustrating once again how they can be pushed back against and overridden. And that is another positive out of it. ||||| I came home to find out that my boys received two trophies for nothing, participation trophies! While I am very proud of my boys for everything they do and will encourage them till the day I die, these trophies will be given back until they EARN a real trophy. I'm sorry I'm not sorry for believing that everything in life should be earned and I'm not about to raise two boys to be men by making them believe that they are entitled to something just because they tried their best...cause sometimes your best is not enough, and that should drive you to want to do better...not cry and whine until somebody gives you something to shut u up and keep you happy. #harrisonfamilyvalues ||||| Steelers linebacker James Harrison wrote on his Instagram account that he is taking away participation trophies awarded to his two sons — ages 8 and 6 — until they 'EARN a real trophy.' (Photo: Charles LeClaire, USA TODAY Sports) 
  
 Life isn't always fair. 
  
 You can work your hardest, try your best, expend every ounce of energy you have and sometimes things just don't work out the way you hoped or imagined. That's just the way things go. 
  
 Yet somewhere along the way, someone had the misguided notion that kids should live in a la-la land where everything is perfect, there are no hardships or heartbreaks, and you get a shiny trophy or a pretty blue ribbon just for being you. 
  
 There's time enough to get acquainted with reality, the thinking goes. In the meantime, children should be praised and encouraged, reminded at every turn how wonderful they are. 
  
 No wonder study after study has shown that millennials, the first of the trophy generations, are stressed out and depressed. They were sold a bill of goods when they were kids, and discovering that the harsh realities of life apply to them, too, had to have been like a punch to the gut. 
  
 Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison may be the last person you want to take life lessons from, given his history of violence on and off the field. But his announcement Sunday that he was giving back his 8- and 6-year-old son's "participation" trophies because they hadn't earned them was dead on, and that message shouldn't be discounted simply because he was the one delivering it. 
  
 "While I am very proud of my boys for everything they do and will encourage them till the day I die, these trophies will be given back until they EARN a real trophy," Harrison said in a post on Instagram. "I'm sorry I'm not sorry for believing that everything in life should be earned and I'm not about to raise two boys to be men by making them believe that they are entitled to something just because they tried their best." 
  
 Amen. 
  
 Everybody-gets-a-trophy proponents say children should be rewarded for their efforts, that the prizes give kids incentive to always try their best and persevere. But isn't that what the orange slices and cookies are for? By handing out trophies and medals at every turn, it actually sends the opposite message, essentially telling kids it's enough just to show up. 
  
 Why should a kid strive to improve or put in the extra effort when he or she is treated no differently than the kid who sits in the outfield picking dandelions? Or, as NFL MVP Kurt Warner said on Twitter on Monday, "They don't let kids pass classes 4 just showing up!" 
  
 "The whole idea is to protect that kid and, ultimately, it’s a huge disservice. What kids need is skill-building. Help them do what they’re doing and do it better," said Ashley Merryman, co-author of Top Dog: The Science of Winning and Losing. 
  
 "The benefit of competition isn’t actually winning. The benefit is improving," Merryman added. "When you're constantly giving a kid a trophy for everything they’re doing, you're saying, 'I don’t care about improvement. I don't care that you're learning from your mistakes. All we expect is that you’re always a winner.' " 
  
 And if you've taken a peek at any 9-year-old's room recently, you'll see how much those precious trophies and ribbons really mean. Most are either coated in dust or buried in the back of a closet. 
  
 If we're honest with ourselves, the trophies, ribbons and medals we hand out so willingly are more about us than the children getting them. It's affirmation that our kids are as wonderful as we think they are. It's also a way to fool ourselves into thinking that we're sheltering them, at least temporarily, from the cold, cruel world. 
  
 But real life is hard, and no amount of trophies can shield kids from the disappointments and challenges they'll eventually face. 
  
 "I like kids. I want them to be happy and do well," said Merryman, who has mentored Olympic athletes. "But I'd much rather have a 6-year-old cry because he didn’t get a medal than have a 26-year-old lose it because they realized they weren’t as special as they thought they were." 
  
 Learning the true values of hard work, perseverance and resilience, that's the real reward. All other trophies pale in comparison. 
  
 VIDEO: Examining the youth sports trophy culture ||||| Recently Steelers LB James Harrison took a stand against participation trophies and, by extension, the Everyone is a Winner mentality that permeates our culture. 
  
 Clarification 8/20: James Harrison knew what kind of trophies his children received and made an informed choice to return them. Based on the comments section in the article, it seems readers may have misconstrued those facts. My thought here: Participation is in the eye of the participant. Something that feels like a participation trophy to Harrison might be perceived as hard-earned by others. 
  
 ..... 
  
 When I initially saw Pittsburgh Steelers LB James Harrison's social media post about returning his sons' participation trophies, I thought "Right on." As a parent, I've had to explain to my kids that everyone is not a winner. There is one winner. Everyone who finishes after the winner is, technically, one of many losers. So I get James Harrison's overall perspective. Entitlement is a societal scourge, and it is important for kids to understand that both achievement and effort are essential ingredients for success. It is unrealistic and dangerous to teach kids overtly or inadvertently that jobs, money, healthy relationships, and opportunities magically appear like participation ribbons at the end of a Kindergarten fun run. 
  
 I was about to write about that angle, but then I took a closer look at the trophies in questions and saw a "Best of the Batch" inscription. "Oh," I thought to myself. "That is Charlie Batch's foundation." While I agreed in principle with James Harrison, I also know a lot about former Pittsburgh Steelers QB Charlie Batch's foundation from the conversation I had with him earlier in the offseason. (If you missed that three-part series, you can find the third article and links to the first two here.) 
  
 I figured there must be more to the story. After all, Charlie Batch does not let kids participate in many of his organized activities unless they attend mandatory tutoring. Opportunities for fun competition are contingent on achievement and effort. Traits that even James Harrison would agree are important. 
  
 While Harrison's kids probably do not go hungry at night, many of the student-athletes that Charlie Batch serves through his foundation do not know where their next meal is coming from. It sounds cliche', but it is true. So true that one of the services Batch's foundation provides is the availability of after school snacks. No questions asked. If you're hungry, you can stop by his Homestead foundation and get something to eat. That way, if a child does want to participate in a sport, run around the neighborhood, or even sit down to do homework, he or she won't be distracted by an empty stomach. 
  
 So, for many Best of the Batch participants, survival takes effort. It isn't handed to them. They work for it. Clothing, a place to sleep, nourishment, sense of safety. There is very little they can count on and take for granted. Enter the Batch's sports programs, including the Next Level Athletics Track Club, where Harrison's kids were participants. The goal of the club is to focus on "the development of student-athletes in an environment that promotes academic development, self-esteem, and confidence." The original point of the program according to Batch was a lot more basic: "At the beginning the program was just to get the kids off the streets and give them something to do," he told me. 
  
 Clearly, his program has evolved to include participants beyond underprivileged residents of Homestead. The underlying values, however, remain the same. While earning good grades and participating in a sport might be easy and effortless for some, it is quite an achievement for a young man or woman who battles hunger, an unpredictable home life, and other challenges. Those trophies weren't just for showing up. 
  
 The same trophies Harrison returned provide valuable life lessons to the children of Homestead. That lesson is not one of entitlement. It is quite the opposite. The message those trophies convey, perhaps for the first time in a child's life, is that hard work does pay off and that there is tremendous value in dedicating time to both athletic and academic endeavors. Children look at the trophy and believe the message: "I'm good at school. I can be more. I can do more." 
  
 Those trophies could mean as much to the Best of the Batch kids as a Super Bowl ring means to James Harrison. And, instead of being the culmination of a lifetime of hard work, those trophies could provide the motivation and impetus for children to start their own journeys and begin their lifetime of effort and achievement. |||||