As Eddie Murphy accepted the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor on Sunday night, he did something delightfully unexpected: a Bill Cosby impression. It was part of a mini stand-up set that Murphy performed upon receiving his Twain bust at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. "Bill has one of these," Murphy said, according to the Washington Post, referencing Cosby's 2009 honor and recent sex-abuse scandals in the same breath. "Did you all make him give it back?" He proceeded in Cosby's voice: "You may have heard recently that I allegedly put the pill in the people's stomach ... If I ever see or meet this Hannibal Buress in person I am going to try and kill this man!" 
  
 The crowd seemed to enjoy what was the hallowed comedian's first set in nearly three decades, according to the Post — especially the Cosby bit, which Murphy has explained he's stayed away from as of late because he initially didn't find anything about the idea funny. But that changed not long before Sunday, when Murphy told Arsenio Hall and Chris Rock he wanted to cap his special night with a special send-off. "[Murphy] said, 'Because Cosby gonna get sick of this soon, he's gonna get sick of people hating, and eventually he's gonna have to say something,'" Hall told the Post, of the honoree's change of heart. "And [Rock and I] were like, 'That is funny, man. Are you willing?'" 
  
 Evidently so. The ceremony also included salutes from such big-name comedians as Kathy Griffin, Kevin Nealon, Trevor Noah, Joe Piscopo, Chris Rock, and Tracy Morgan, among others. "[Murphy]'s the reason I'm in comedy. He's the reason I have a job," Morgan, who has been mounting his post-accident comeback, reportedly said. "He's the reason I have a career." Murphy received the nation's top prize in comedy tonight for his unparalleled stature as "the most commercially successful African-American actor in the history of the motion picture business," and "one of the industry's top-five box-office performers overall," according to the Kennedy Center. Unless video leaks (we'll keep our eyes peeled), you'll have to wait to catch the night's full broadcast (and Cosby impression) on November 23, via PBS. ||||| Eddie Murphy riffs on Bill Cosby as he delivers his first joke onstage in over 28 years, while receiving the Mark Twain Prize. (AP) 
  
 There was a plan. Two weeks ago, Eddie Murphy told his pal Arsenio Hall that he was mulling over a special way to close the show when he accepted the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor at the Kennedy Center Sunday night. He was actually going to tell a few jokes. 
  
 That may sound like a small thing — except that Murphy, the most successful standup comedian of the 1980s, hasn’t told a joke in front of a live audience for 28 years. 
  
 In a D.C. hotel room Saturday, Murphy, 54, made it clear he was ready to go. He tried out his short routine for his tiny but influential audience: Hall and Chris Rock. 
  
 [Eddie Murphy returns to standup, briefly, at Twain Prize ceremony] 
  
 In Murphy’s best Pudding Pop voice, a voice best remembered from his live, 1987 concert smash, “Raw,” his Cosby got a full update. 
  
 “You may have heard recently that I allegedly put the pill in the people’s stomach,” Murphy popped out perfectly as the audience erupted in delight. “…If I ever see or meet this Hannibal Buress in person I am going to try and kill this man!” 
  
 Backstage, watching on a TV monitor as Murphy worked smoothly through his short routine, Rock turned to Hall. 
  
 “That f—-r is killing,” he said. 
  
 Hall recounted talking through the bit with Murphy and Rock in the hotel room. 
  
 “[Eddie] said, ‘Because Cosby gonna get sick of this soon, he’s gonna get sick of people hating, and eventually he’s gonna have to say something,’” Hall said Sunday night. “And we were like, ‘That is funny, man. Are you willing?'” 
  
 He was, which is notable as Murphy decided he didn’t want to poke fun of Cosby on the “Saturday Night Live” 40th anniversary special earlier this year. 
  
 [Not just Bill Cosby: Eddie Murphy also didn’t want to play Stevie Wonder at ‘SNL 40’] 
  
 Eddie Murphy was accompanied by an all-star cast at the Kennedy Center, where he received the Mark Twain Prize. (Erin Patrick O'Connor/The Washington Post) 
  
 Did Hall, who has been plotting ways to get his “Coming to America” pal to return to live performances, think this could spark a full return to the stage? Coupled with his thank yous and a few jokes about the Mark Twain Prize not coming with any financial award, Murphy spoke for about seven minutes. 
  
 “It’s a glimpse of a man who has one foot on a standup stage and another foot on a banana peel, and I just hope he can get to the stage,” Hall said. 
  
 There is one issue that may cause a hiccup in a return to comedy for Murphy, Hall remarked. “I said the only problem now is from now on when you do standup, you’re gonna have to hold Mark Twain’s head because you were awful comfortable in that position,” Hall said. “…Take the Mark Twain head on the road, even though Mark Twain would not have liked it.” 
  
 [On the red carpet for Eddie Murphy’s Mark Twain Award, comics riff on that leather suit] 
  
 Eddie Murphy does Bill Cosby upon accepting the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor "Bill has 1 of these. Did y'all make him give it back?" — Peggy McGlone (@PeggyMcGlone) October 19, 2015 
  
 Eddie Murphy is right now doing Bill Cosby on a stage. Yes. — Geoff Edgers (@geoffedgers) October 19, 2015 
  
 @eddiemurphy on Bill Cosby: "You know you f'd up when they want you to give your trophies back." — Geoff Edgers (@geoffedgers) October 19, 2015 
  
 Eddie Murphy does Bill Cosby 2: "I would like to talk to some of the people who feel like I should give back my mother—– trophies." — Geoff Edgers (@geoffedgers) October 19, 2015 
  
 In Pudding Pop voice glory. Yes, the comedy king Eddie Murphy did first live jokes on stage since 1987. — Geoff Edgers (@geoffedgers) October 19, 2015 
  
 Eddie Murphy on whether the Mark Twain Prize is an award or a prize: "When it's a prize there's usually $ involved." 1/2 — Peggy McGlone (@PeggyMcGlone) October 19, 2015 
  
 Murphy: "When they told me they raised $2.3 million I thought yeah I'm in there." — Peggy McGlone (@PeggyMcGlone) October 19, 2015 
  
 Related: ||||| FILE - In this Feb. 22, 2015 file photo, Eddie Murphy presents the award for best original screenplay at the Oscars at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. Chris Rock, Kathy Griffin, Arsenio Hall and other... (Associated Press) 
  
 The Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts presented the comedian Sunday with the Mark Twain Prize, the nation's top prize for humor. 
  
 The evening's most emotional tribute came from "Saturday Night Live" alum Tracy Morgan, who received a standing ovation from the audience. He called Murphy his "comedic hero." 
  
 Morgan survived a serious car crash last year that left him in a coma. Morgan said Murphy was the first person to call him on the phone and make him laugh after the tragic accident that killed a passenger in the limo and seriously injured two others 
  
 "He's the reason I'm in comedy. He's the reason I have a job. He's the reason I have a career," Morgan said. 
  
 At one point, Murphy offered a reminder of his willingness to do politically incorrect humor by offering some jokes about former Mark Twain award winner Bill Cosby — who was one of his "heroes," but has been accused by various women of sexual misconduct. 
  
 Among the other SNL alumni who paid tribute to Murphy were Jay Pharoah, Kevin Nealon and Joe Piscopo. 
  
 "Some people are just blessed with talent, and with Eddie, it was just luck," Nealon ribbed. 
  
 Nealon said Murphy saved SNL from slumping ratings in the 1980s, and he hoped he could also save the Kennedy Center from becoming the Trump Center. 
  
 "I can see the slot machines in the lobby," joked Nealon, who starred with Murphy in "Daddy Day Care." 
  
 Trevor Noah, who took over hosting "The Daily Show" in September, said he was introduced to the comedian after viewing of "Coming to America." 
  
 "Eddie Murphy's influenced almost every single comedian— especially of my generation. He did everything brilliantly," Noah said, in an interview with The Associated Press. "He showed me a benchmark to aim for. He made me realize that there was a level of excellence to try and attain, and I still think I'm working at that 'til this day." 
  
 Murphy called the prize a "tremendous honor," but asked the center to clear up any confusion over the prize for future recipients. 
  
 "Actually, it's an award, but they call it a prize," he said. "Usually when there's a prize, there's money." 
  
 In referring to Cosby, Murphy joked that you know you've messed up "when they want you to give your trophy back." Murphy did an impersonation of Cosby refusing to give back his award. 
  
 Cosby, who received the award in 2009, has been accused by more than two dozen women of sexual misconduct, including allegations by many that he drugged and raped them. 
  
 The humor prize honors those who influence society in the tradition of Samuel Clemens, the writer and satirist known as Mark Twain. Past honorees include Jay Leno, Carol Burnett, Tina Fey, Whoopi Goldberg, Ellen DeGeneres, Will Ferrell and Richard Pryor. 
  
 Murphy gained national attention when he joined the SNL cast in 1980 at the age of 19. He went on to become the most commercially successful African-American actor in film history and one of the industry's Top 5 box office performers overall, the Kennedy Center said. Murphy's films have been among Hollywood's highest-grossing comedies, including "48 Hours," ''Trading Places," ''Dr. Dolittle" and "Coming to America." 
  
 The tribute will be broadcast Nov. 23 on PBS. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Online: 
  
 Mark Twain Award: http://www.kennedy-center.org/programs/specialevents/marktwain ||||| After Saturday Night Live alum Norm Macdonald tweeted that Eddie Murphy refused to revive his Bill Cosby impression for SNL's 40th Anniversary special, The Cosby Show star expressed his gratitude to his fellow comedian. 
  
 "I am very appreciative of Eddie," Cosby told ET through a spokesperson on Thursday, "and I applaud his actions." 
  
 VIDEO: SNL 40th Anniversary Special's 9 Greatest Segments of the Night! 
  
 In a series of tweets posted on Wednesday, Macdonald suggested that Murphy was approached to portray Cosby during the "Celebrity Jeopardy" sketch. 
  
  
  
 "He knew the laughs would bring the house down. Eddie Murphy knows what will work on SNL better than anyone," he wrote. "Eddie Murphy, I realize, is not like the rest of us. Eddie does not need the laughs." 
  
 Current SNL cast member Kenan Thompson ended up doing the impersonation instead. 
  
 NEWS: Bill Cosby's Accusers: A Timeline of Alleged Sexual Assault Claims (Updated) 
  
 Cosby, 77, has come under fire after more than 20 women came forward accusing him of sexual abuse, though he has refuted the claims and has never been criminally charged. 
  
  
  
 "Eddie decides the laughs are not worth it," Macdonald continued tweeting. "He will not kick a man when he is down." |||||