The violations “jeopardize subject safety and welfare, and raise concerns about the validity and integrity of the data collected at your site,” the F.D.A. said in a letter, obtained by The Times, to Dr. Alexander Neumeister, the studies’ lead investigator. 
  
 Dr. Charles Marmar, the chairman of the psychiatry department at N.Y.U., said that people working with Dr. Neumeister had reported concerns about the lab’s compliance with research standards. Once some of those issues were confirmed, Dr. Marmar said, the university placed Dr. Neumeister on leave, “and suspended all activity, suspended access to all accounts. I took control of those studies.” Dr. Neumeister later submitted his resignation. 
  
 Georges Lederman, a lawyer for Dr. Neumeister, said there may have been protocol violations, “but N.Y.U. has taken the position that those violations were more egregious than we believe they actually were.” The issues could have been easily remedied, he said, and noted that they did not cause the sponsor of the research, the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer, to shut it down. 
  
 Both the university and Mr. Lederman said there was no evidence that any study participant had been harmed. 
  
 Sign Up for the Science Times Newsletter Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos. 
  
 Pfizer said that N.Y.U. was responsible for conducting the trial, and that the company had previously tested the same drug, known as an F.A.A.H. inhibitor, for osteoarthritic pain, without significant side effects. “The safety profile we observed does not preclude future development of our compound,” a Pfizer spokesman said by email. 
  
 Careful oversight is a centerpiece of ethical research practice, particularly when studies involve people taking an experimental drug. Earlier this year, six patients in a French trial of another experimental drug with similar, marijuana-like effects were hospitalized with severe neurological problems; one has reportedly died. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Study participants with mental disorders are especially susceptible to adverse reactions, experts said. “These are people who are more vulnerable to being exploited in the research process, and more vulnerable to things going wrong during the research, so you want extra vigilance,” said Elisa Hurley, the executive director of Public Responsibility in Medicine and Research, a national nonprofit devoted to promoting high research standards. “If someone in my family were in a situation like this, I would want to be sure that the institution was crossing its t’s and dotting its i’s.” 
  
 The study was an attempt to extend a small trial that Dr. Neumeister had done previously, suggesting that cannabis might relieve anxiety in some people with post-traumatic stress disorder. “We know very well that people with PTSD who use marijuana often experience more relief from their symptoms than they do from antidepressants and other psychiatric medications,” Dr. Neumeister said in a 2014 N.Y.U. news release after the first trial. 
  
 The research team decided to use a drug intended to produce some of marijuana’s effects, made by Pfizer, which financed the trial. Some participants took the drug over a seven-day period; others took a placebo pill. The N.Y.U. team performed scans on each person to see whether brain activation patterns correlated with symptom relief. 
  
 The study called for recruiting 50 people with a PTSD diagnosis, according to study documents. Only 14 enrolled at the N.Y.U. site, according to federal documents, and many had participated in previous studies by Dr. Neumeister. One had completed a study of another drug 16 days earlier, when the protocol called for a 30-day window, according to the F.D.A. 
  
 The federal inspection, from July 16 to Aug. 5 last year, found that the research team had failed to assess at least three subjects 24 hours after they had taken the experimental drug, contrary to study protocol, according to the F.D.A. letter. In several instances, the agency found, Dr. Neumeister had falsified documents by signing a fellow investigator’s name on reports. “However, in fact, you or another study employee actually conducted these study procedures,” not the colleague, the F.D.A. concluded. 
  
 Ms. Ruffcorn, who writes a popular Facebook blog on trauma called A Little Bent, said the most unsettling part of the experience was not the loose monitoring, but the preparations for the trial. To participate, the N.Y.U. team told her, she first had to stop taking all her medications. But the study had several false starts, requiring her to stop taking medication, then restart, then stop again — and restart. 
  
 “It was horrible,” she said. “I had flashbacks, returning nightmares, every symptom coming on full force, not to mention the withdrawal. After going off and back on four or five times, I told them, ‘I can’t do this anymore.’” 
  
 That’s when she was flown to New York to enter the trial. 
  
 Ms. Ruffcorn said she had several odd symptoms after the trial, including a hyper, wired sensation that occurred without the usual memories of abuse. For months, she tried to find out whether those reactions were tied to the experimental drug, but because the study was shut down and the data belonged to Pfizer, the N.Y.U. doctors could not tell her whether she’d taken the drug or a placebo. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Earlier this month, after much persistence, she found out that she’d taken the placebo. “It was a big relief,” she said. 
  
 Dr. Neumeister and N.Y.U. continue to disagree over the seriousness of the research violations, both sides said. But the university has tossed out all of the data as unreliable, and tracked down the study participants to check on their health, Dr. Marmar said. 
  
 “I honestly believed I had the best qualified and among the most ethical researchers on the faculty” running these studies, Dr. Marmar said. ||||| *If you have found this page while in search of PTSD treatments for yourself or others, I extend a special welcome to you. Nightmares, flashbacks, overwhelming hopelessness…you are not alone. Someday we WILL find a reliable treatment, perhaps even a cure. Until then, we have each other, friends. Please join me on my Facebook Blog, A Little Bent. 
  
 I have PTSD. After undergoing years of treatment in the form of therapy and pharmaceuticals, it just wasn’t enough. Despite my efforts, I still suffered from the overwhelming effects of PTSD. 
  
 Realizing that I was not alone in this, I decided to contribute to the cause of finding effective treatments, and hopefully find a treatment that worked for myself. 
  
 I sought out and volunteered for three medical research studies; one PTSD brain imaging study, and two separate drug trials. I blogged throughout the studies, recording every poke, prod and challenge, a project lasting for almost 2 years. 
  
 This website is one of the few online chronicles addressing the other side of PTSD research – the HUMAN side. 
  
 Rarely do you hear about clinical trials from the perspective of a participant. In almost every case coverage is devoted to results (good or bad), and are delivered from paid spokespeople or researchers. This is what it’s like to be on the receiving end of these trials. 
  
 While the studies did not end as I had hoped, I do hope that this narrative does help put a face to PTSD research and the need to protect the safety and well-being of research subjects. If you have PTSD, I encourage you to read through my posts – a lot was written about the roaring return of my most debilitating symptoms of PTSD during the trials and how I worked through them. 
  
 Click below to read about my experiences as a volunteer research subject: 
  
 News coverage after an FDA Investigation and studies were halted: |||||