Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 Nov. 12, 2016, 3:25 PM GMT / Updated Nov. 12, 2016, 6:51 PM GMT By Erik Ortiz 
  
 An Ohio judge has declared a mistrial in the case of a white former police officer accused of murdering an unarmed black driver during a traffic stop last year. 
  
 The jury on Saturday was unable to reach a verdict for Ray Tensing, 26, charged with voluntary manslaughter in the shooting of 43-year-old Samuel DuBose — an incident caught on police bodycam. 
  
 Related: What to Know in Case Against Cincinnati Cop 
  
 Hamilton County Common Pleas Judge Megan Shanahan accepted the jury's deadlock Saturday morning. The case is now back in the hands of prosecutors, who must decide whether they will retry the case or dismiss it. 
  
 In the meantime, Tensing remains free on a $1 million bond. 
  
 Al Gerhardstein, an attorney for DuBose's family, said they are "incredibly upset" and will ask for another trial. 
  
 "They are at their wit's end. They have been on hold since Sam was killed," he said after the verdict. 
  
 "With the video evidence as clear as it was, [jurors] should not have been stuck," Gerhardstein added. 
  
 Tensing, who was fired from the University of Cincinnati's police force, faced up to 15 years in prison if convicted on the murder charge. 
  
 The decision came on a fourth day of deliberations by 10 white and two black jurors, who were tasked with weighing whether the shooting was a justifiable use of force after Tensing testified he feared for his life. 
  
 Related: Officer Who Fatally Shot Black Motorist Called 'Extremely Proactive' 
  
 The trial was a rare example of a police officer being charged in such a case — after several high-profile deaths of African-Americans at the hands of cops has caused deep divisions between law enforcement and communities of color. 
  
 Protesters chant outside the Hamilton County Courthouse after a mistrial was declared due to a hung jury in the murder trial against Ray Tensing on Nov. 12 in Cincinnati. John Minchillo / AP 
  
 The defense said Dubose used his car as a weapon, and Tensing pulled his gun when he feared for his life when he was dragged. 
  
 Prosecutors, however, maintained he was not dragged — and bodycam footage doesn't show that key point, they argued. 
  
 Dubose, a father of 13, was pulled over after Tensing said he noticed his car was missing a front license plate. DuBose was shot once in the head. 
  
 The city of Cincinnati, on edge during the trial, was placed on high alert Friday in the event of impromptu demonstrations. Protesters affiliated with Black Lives Matter planned to gather in response on Saturday afternoon and Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley called for peaceful protests. 
  
 After the verdict, the University of Cincinnati's interim president said in a statement: "We cannot and will not let the outcome of this trial divide us." 
  
 "Our campus and our community will come together to listen, to heal and to partner for positive and lasting change," Beverly Davenport said. "More than ever, our communities need us — and we need each other — to be beacons of a better and brighter future." ||||| Ray Tensing leaves court on the third day of jury deliberations in his murder trial, Friday, Nov. 11, 2016, in Cincinnati. The former University of Cincinnati police officer is charged with murdering... (Associated Press) 
  
 Ray Tensing leaves court on the third day of jury deliberations in his murder trial, Friday, Nov. 11, 2016, in Cincinnati. The former University of Cincinnati police officer is charged with murdering Sam DuBose while on duty during a routine traffic stop on July 19, 2015. (AP Photo/John Minchillo) (Associated Press) 
  
 CINCINNATI (AP) — The Latest on deliberations in the murder trial of a white officer in the shooting of an unarmed black man (all times local): 
  
 11 a.m. 
  
 An Ohio prosecutor says jurors were leaning toward convicting a white former police officer on a lesser charge but couldn't agree in the case involving the fatal traffic stop shooting of an unarmed black motorist. 
  
 Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters says the jury in Cincinnati was tilting toward a voluntary manslaughter conviction and an acquittal on the murder charge. 
  
 A judge declared a mistrial Saturday after the jury said it was deadlocked deliberating some 25 hours after getting the case Wednesday. 
  
 Twenty-six-year-old University of Cincinnati police officer Ray Tensing shot 43-year-old Sam DuBose in the head after pulling him over for a missing front license plate on July 19, 2015. Tensing was later fired. 
  
 Deters says he'll decide within the next two weeks whether to try the case again. 
  
 ___ 
  
 10:15 a.m. 
  
 An Ohio judge has declared a mistrial after the jury said it was deadlocked in the case of a white former police officer charged with murder in the fatal traffic stop shooting of an unarmed black motorist. 
  
 The Hamilton County jury had deliberated some 25 hours after getting the case at noontime Wednesday following Judge Megan Shanahan's instructions. Twenty-six-year-old University of Cincinnati police officer Ray Tensing shot 43-year-old Sam DuBose in the head after pulling him over for a missing front license plate on July 19, 2015. 
  
 Tensing testified he feared he was going to be killed. Prosecutors said repeatedly the evidence contradicted Tensing's story. 
  
 The jury of 10 whites and two blacks was seated Oct. 31. 
  
 The shooting is among those across the nation that have raised attention to how police deal with blacks. 
  
 ___ 
  
 8:30 a.m. 
  
 Jury deliberations are going into a fourth day in the murder trial of a white former police officer who fatally shot an unarmed black man during a traffic stop near the University of Cincinnati. 
  
 Hamilton County Judge Megan Shanahan sequestered the jury of 10 whites and two blacks for a third night Friday. They arrived Saturday morning to resume deliberations. 
  
 Twenty-six-year-old Ray Tensing has said he feared for his life when he shot 43-year-old Sam DuBose who was trying to drive away in July 2015. 
  
 The judge on Friday deflected a jury question related to what conditions they could consider that DuBose was evading arrest. The judge has twice told jurors they had all the information they needed to reach a verdict. 
  
 ___ 
  
 12:30 a.m. 
  
 A jury is set to resume deliberations in the murder trial of a white police officer who fatally shot an unarmed black man near the University of Cincinnati. 
  
 Hamilton County Judge Megan Shanahan plans to reconvene the panel Saturday for its fourth day of consideration. 
  
 Jurors appeared to struggle Friday, telling Shanahan around noon that they couldn't reach a decision on murder or voluntary manslaughter charges against Ray Tensing, who was fired from his job after the shooting. 
  
 Later Friday Shanahan deflected a jury question related to conditions under which victim Sam DuBose could have been considered to be evading arrest. 
  
 The judge told the jury both times to keep working, saying they had all the information they needed to reach a verdict. ||||| The murder trial of a white former University of Cincinnati police officer in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black driver last year ended in a mistrial on Saturday after the jurors told the judge they were unable to reach a verdict. 
  
 The jurors first informed the judge on Friday that they were deadlocked, but they were told to continue deliberations. On Saturday morning, the judge declared a mistrial. |||||