World’s largest firearms supplier sells 3.5 years worth of AR-15 clips in 72 hours 
  
 By David Edwards 
  
 Friday, December 21, 2012 12:35 EDT 
  
 The world’s largest supplier of firearms on Thursday said that it had experienced “unprecedented” demand for AR-15 ammunition magazines after a similar weapon was used to slaughter 20 6- and 7-year-old children at a school in Connecticut. 
  
 In a statement on the AR15.com forum, Brownells spokesperson Jason Corpus apologized to customers for delays in fulfilling their orders of assault weapon clips. 
  
 “I wanted to take a minute to shed some insight on the magazine situation if i can,” Corpus wrote. “First of all I wanted to offer an apology for the situation that Pacs and anyone else encountered with magazines being ‘In-Stock’ and Backordered moments later… the demand for magazines actually exceeded the ability for the system to keep up with the volume that was being ordered.” 
  
 Corpus explained that the company’s enterprise resource planning (ERP) computer system had been flooded with orders after the tragedy in Connecticut. 
  
 “To shed some more light on the magazine situation at present, it really has been unprecedented in the last 5 days,” he continued. “[W]e sold the ‘average demand’ equivalent of about 3 1/2 years worth of PMAGS, and and an even greater amount of our Brownells magazines. We’re working like crazy to get these orders to you as quickly as possible.” 
  
 Corpus later corrected his statement to clarify that the 3.5 years worth of magazines had actually been sold in 72 hours — or three days — instead of five days. 
  
 “On the Brownells 30 and 20 round magazines, we’re still flowing those into the system daily, and are producing those at 100% capacity as well,” he said. “We ordered more material yesterday that will allow us to up production again in the coming weeks.” 
  
 A search of Brownells’ online store showed on Friday that the top 10 most popular AR-15 clips — including the Surefire high-capacity 100 round magazine — were out of stock. 
  
 [Photo: Shuttertock.com] 
  
 (h/t: Guns.com) ||||| JSteensen Member 
  
 Team Member 
  
 Joined: Feb 2004 AZ, USA AZ, USA Feb 2004 
  
 Posts: 6566 
  
 Feedback: 100% (4) 
  
 Link To This Post 
  
 6566 
  
 Posted: 12/20/2012 11:35:18 AM Originally Posted By Brownells: 
  
 Hey Guys, 
  
  
  
 I wanted to take a minute to shed some insight on the magazine situation if i can. First of all I wanted to offer an apology for the situation that Pacs and anyone else encountered with magazines being "In-Stock" and Backordered moments later. Cedjunior had it correct, the demand for magazines actually exceeded the ability for the system to keep up with the volume that was being ordered. They way that our website works is that inventory is fed from our ERP system directly into the website in "real-time". Unfortunately, "real-time" is the amount of time that it takes for the transactions to work both ways. During normal circumstances, it is nearly instant. However, we've been receiving orders at such a pace that these transactions have gotten slower. We absolutely apologize again, we definitely don't want that ever to be your experience. 
  
  
  
 To shed some more light on the magazine situation at present, it really has been unprecedented in the last 5 days. During a roughly the 36 hour period from Sunday afternoon to Monday evening we sold the "average demand" equivalent of about 3 1/2 years worth of PMAGS, and and an even greater amount of our Brownells magazines. We're working like crazy to get these orders to you as quickly as possible. 
  
  
  
 We're working directly with Magpul daily to forecast out the next couple of months deliveries. Magpul is focusing their efforts on the BLACK magazines, so we're limiting backorders to only Black for now. 
  
  
  
 On the Brownells 30 and 20 round magazines, we're still flowing those into the system daily, and are producing those at 100% capacity as well. We ordered more material yesterday that will allow us to up production again in the coming weeks. 
  
  
  
 Our apologies for the delays! We'll keep working as hard as possible to get these going and will keep you updated always. Let us know if we can do anything at all. - JC 
  
  
  
 And this sort of post and reaching out to the community is why I value your company as a retailer - I don't get to order from you near as often as I'd like, but you always come through and if there are any issues, you take care of them ASAP. And this sort of post and reaching out to the community is why I value your company as a retailer - I don't get to order from you near as often as I'd like, but you always come through and if there are any issues, you take care of them ASAP. |||||