On Wednesday, he will perform a Budget encore.
No chancellor has given a speech to a Conservative majority since November 1996, so this time he can expect a more rousing reception from the House.
Will this be his chance to try out some new material in front of a favourable audience or will he simply repeat his best bits from the pre-election Budget in March.
The likelihood is there will be a bit of both. So, how will this affect you?
Critics of the chancellor's performance in March said there was not enough detail on how he was going to cut £12bn from the annual welfare budget in two years, as part of a bid to balance the books.
The total welfare bill is £220bn. That includes benefits, tax credits and the state pension. Some £120bn of that is spent on pensioners, about £95bn of which are pensions and universal benefits that the Conservatives have vowed to protect. So, most of the £12bn of cuts will have to come from the £100bn that goes to those of working age.
"He's announced about £2bn [of cuts] and we know nothing about where the further £10bn are coming from," said Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) on the day after the March Budget.
"He will have to implement some significant cuts in some significant benefits."
The first year of a new Parliament may be the most well-timed opportunity, politically, for Mr Osborne to outline where the axe will fall.
This is expected to include cuts to:
The prime minister has spoken about the "merry-go-round" of subsidising low pay with tax credits. This may be an example of "pitch rolling" - preparing the ground for a new policy.
The changes to the benefits cap will extend a pledge in the Conservative party's election manifesto. Housing benefit was also outlined in the party's election programme.
The Budget could include an incentive for businesses to improve the salaries of low-paid workers, to compensate for the blow of tax credit cuts.
Plans to scrap part of the UK's main sickness benefit, Employment and Support Allowance, are being considered, a leaked Whitehall paper seen by the BBC suggests.
In addition to the welfare cuts, there will be an estimated £30bn cut to unprotected government departments.
There may be some more detail about this in the Budget ahead of a spending review. The impact is likely to be job losses in the public sector, and potential changes to workplace benefits for these employees.
The Conservative manifesto pledged a change to the amount that the wealthy can put tax-free each year into their private pension pots.
This is likely to mean that anyone earning £150,000 a year will be able to put £40,000 a year into their pension. Those earning more will see the maximum contribution level fall on a sliding scale, down to £10,000 for those earning £210,000 a year.
Mr Osborne said in the build-up to the Budget that local authority and housing association tenants in England who earn more than £30,000, or £40,000 in London, will have to pay a larger amount in rent.
There have been a lot of announcements in Mr Osborne's previous Budgets and Autumn Statements that people can account for in their personal budgets.
These include:
A plan for a fully flexible cash Individual Savings Account (Isa) was announced in the last Budget but required consultation with providers. This will allow savers to take money out, and put it back in later in the year, without losing any of their tax-free entitlement. This is scheduled to be introduced in the autumn.