Near Munich, Germany, a man in a Tesla Model S saw a Volkswagen Passat swerving erratically on the Autobahn, slamming against a guardrail multiple times. When he noticed that the person behind the wheel was unconscious, the Tesla driver sprang into action. 
  
 Muenchner Merkur reports that this “action” involved the 41 year-old driver in the Tesla calling the fire department, and then pulling his Model S in front of the out-of-control Passat. 
  
 He then tapped the brakes so the Passat was contacting his rear bumper, and slowly, the two cars came to a halt. Shortly thereafter, the fire department came to assist the unconscious driver, who, the German daily newspaper says, likely suffered a stroke. 
  
 It’s an act of total heroism. Not only did the Tesla driver have to sacrifice his own car (the newspaper says that his Tesla and the Passat suffered about 10,000 Euro in combined damage), but he had to do something that Germans are programmed from birth never to do: pass in the right lane—a crime right up there with theft, wasting good beer, and putting bacon on Jaegerschnitzel. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 But he managed to conquer those genetic predispositions, and because of that, the newspaper reports, he likely saved the 47 year-old Passat driver’s life. 
  
 Anyone who puts their $70,000+ car on the line to keep a total stranger safe is a bit of a stud in my book. ||||| FEB 15 2017 BY STEVEN LOVEDAY 
  
 Reports from Munich are commending a Tesla Model S driver for his heroic actions. Not only did he save a man’s life, and potentially others, he carried out the task by forfeiting his prized car. Later, in appreciation for the good deed, Tesla CEO Elon Musk said Tesla would pick up the tab on repairs! 
  
 The driver (Manfred Kick) was driving on the A9 (Autobahn) and noticed a VW Passat drive past him with a slumped over driver. The “ghost” car seemed out of control and the situation could have become dire quickly. 
  
 Fortunately, at the time, it was moving slowly in the left lane, so Kick thought quickly and pulled ahead of it with his Model S, in order to create a barrier, and bring it to a stop. 
  
 After stopping the vehicle, Kick climbed into it and grabbed the motionless man to begin administering first aid. During this time, a few other onlookers helped Kick by securing the area and calling emergency services. While Kick was in the vehicle trying to help the man, a hands-free phone call came through the car’s system. He told the caller of the situation and asked them to also call emergency services. He explained: 
  
 “I felt his pulse and then put him in a lying position so that the foam ran out of his mouth. I felt like I was in a movie. This was an extreme situation in which you just work.” (translated from German) 
  
 Later, Kick learned that the driver had likely had a stroke and his quick thinking moved the man to medical treatment sooner. Also, had the situation escalated, the stray car could have easily hit other vehicles in the area. 
  
 And although the damage did not appear severe to Kick’s Model S, the repair bill on that aluminum body was going to be fairly significant…that is until the Tesla CEO got wind of the good deed and decided his company should pick up the tab. 
  
 In appreciation, Tesla is providing all repair costs free of charge and expedited. https://t.co/D68HNJcCoQ — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) February 15, 2017 
  
 Due to the fact that it was considered an accident (even though Kick was doing the right thing) he still has to undergo an investigation. An authority from the local police department has already contacted him. Kick half-joked: 
  
 “That’s how it is, our state of law. I guess I will not get into big problems.” (translated from German) 
  
 The police officer explained: 
  
 “This is a normal procedure. If someone is injured in an accident, the prosecutor’s office has to be submitted for examination. Similarly, if a policeman acts in self-defense. It’s also necessary to check what happened exactly.” (translated from German) 
  
 Fortunately, thanks to Kick, the 47-year-old VW Passat driver is awake now and in stable condition. 
  
 Source: TZ (Munich) via Electrek – Images via local fire department |||||