These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Trump says he's not letting Sessions twist in the wind 
  
 The White House says it will decide "soon" on the fate of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, after a barrage of criticism from President Donald Trump. 
  
 In a Twitter onslaught, Mr Trump called the country's top prosecutor "weak", a day after labelling him "beleaguered". 
  
 At the White House later, Mr Trump said he was "disappointed" with Mr Sessions. 
  
 The former Alabama senator should not have recused himself from an FBI inquiry into alleged Russian meddling in the election, said the president. 
  
 Allies of Mr Sessions have indicated that he intends to stay in his post. 
  
 "Attorney General Jeff Sessions has taken a VERY weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes (where are E-mails & DNC server) & Intel leakers!" Mr Trump tweeted on Tuesday. 
  
 Will Sessions get fired? 
  
 Anthony Scaramucci, the president's new communications director, fanned speculation on Tuesday that the attorney general's days could be numbered. 
  
 "We'll come to a resolution soon," he said when asked by reporters about the tensions between the Republican president and top prosecutor. 
  
 An interviewer put it to Mr Scaramucci that it was pretty clear Mr Trump wants Mr Sessions gone. 
  
 "If there's this level of tension in the relationship that's public, you're probably right," Mr Scaramucci said. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mr Trump's supporters in Ohio say it's time for Mr Sessions to step aside 
  
 Mr Sessions was in the West Wing on Monday, but did not meet the president, according to deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. 
  
 The attorney general has recently asked White House aides if he can see Mr Trump to patch things up, reports AP news agency. 
  
 But Mr Scaramucci said on Tuesday: "My guess is the president doesn't want to do that." 
  
 Analysis: No one is safe 
  
 Anthony Zurcher, BBC North America reporter 
  
 Another day, another 24 hours of Jeff Sessions gently fluttering in the breeze. 
  
 Although Donald Trump denied it on Tuesday afternoon, it's hard to read his "we'll see what happens" and "time will tell" comments - when asked if he would fire Mr Sessions - as anything but ominous. 
  
 Even more concerning for the attorney general were the president's remarks to the Wall Street Journal earlier in the day, essentially shrugging off the then-senator's early endorsement of his presidential candidacy. 
  
 Mr Sessions was more than just a Trump bandwagoner. He was a Trump trailblazer. He staked out anti-immigration positions long before the New York mogul took the presidential dive. He was an animated advocate for Mr Trump on the campaign trail, sticking by him when other national politicians ran for cover. 
  
 Now the president is turning on his loyal ally. 
  
 The prospect that even Mr Sessions isn't above attack is sending a chill throughout conservative ranks. His former Senate colleagues, currently debating healthcare reform, have to wonder whether the president has their back. 
  
 Conservative media - even reliably pro-Trump Breitbart.com - are balking at the president's barbs. Within the executive branch, unease grows. 
  
 If Cabinet secretaries aren't safe from the president's sting, who is? 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Donald Trump delivered a speech to remember to the Boy Scouts of America 
  
 Why is Trump unhappy with Sessions? 
  
 Last week, Mr Trump expressed regret about appointing the former Alabama senator, telling the New York Times Mr Sessions "should have never recused himself". 
  
 Mr Sessions, known for his hardline anti-immigration stance, was one of then-candidate Mr Trump's earliest supporters in Washington. 
  
 But in March he recused himself from the Russia inquiry after failing during his confirmation hearing to disclose a meeting with the Kremlin's envoy. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption All you need to know about the Trump-Russia investigation 
  
 What's the reaction from Congress? 
  
 The most powerful Republican on Capitol Hill, House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, has made clear he would have no problem if Mr Sessions is dismissed. 
  
 Mr Ryan told reporters on Tuesday: "He [President Trump] determines who is hired and fired in the executive branch - that's his prerogative." 
  
 But Republican South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham defended Mr Sessions. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ben Cardin tells the World Tonight Trump has been inconsistent with his constitutional responsibilities 
  
 "President Trump's tweet today suggesting Attorney General Sessions pursue prosecution of a former political rival is highly inappropriate," tweeted Mr Graham. 
  
 Some suspect Mr Trump's ultimate target is Robert Mueller, the special counsel who is leading the Russia investigation. 
  
 Representative Adam Schiff tweeted on Tuesday that Mr Trump "wants to force Sessions to resign so he can appoint someone to curb Mueller probe". 
  
 Mr Schiff is ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, one of several congressional panels investigating whether Trump election campaign officials colluded with Moscow. 
  
 What next if Sessions is axed? 
  
 It was reported on Monday that the president is considering former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani or Texas Senator Ted Cruz for the job. 
  
 But Mr Giuliani told CNN on Monday that Mr Sessions had "made the right decision under the rules of the justice department" in recusing himself from the inquiry. 
  
 If Mr Trump were to fire Mr Sessions, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein would be next in line to take over the job on an acting basis. 
  
 However, Mr Trump has been critical of Mr Rosenstein for his handling of the Russia inquiry. 
  
 Why does Trump want Clinton investigated? 
  
 During the election, Mr Trump suggested the Democratic candidate would be in jail if he were elected. 
  
 Chants of "lock her up" were routine at his rallies as he stoked voter mistrust over Mrs Clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. 
  
 But it was Mr Trump who dropped the issue once he was elected. 
  
 In an interview with the New York Times, he said: "I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't. 
  
 "She went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways." ||||| President Trump and his advisers are privately discussing the possibility of replacing Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and some confidants are floating prospects who could take his place were he to resign or be fired, according to people familiar with the talks. 
  
 Members of Trump’s circle, including White House officials, have increasingly raised the question among themselves in recent days as the president has continued to vent his frustration with the attorney general, the people said. 
  
 Replacing Sessions is viewed by some Trump associates as potentially being part of a strategy to fire special counsel Robert S. Mueller III and end his investigation of whether the Trump campaign coordinated with the Kremlin to influence the 2016 election, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to comment publicly. 
  
 On Tuesday, Trump renewed his attack on Sessions, accusing him on Twitter of taking a “VERY weak position” on alleged “crimes” by Hillary Clinton and intelligence leakers. 
  
 The president had taken another swipe at Sessions on Monday, calling his attorney general “our beleaguered A.G.” and asking why Sessions was not “looking into Crooked Hillary’s crimes & Russia relations?” 
  
 (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post) 
  
 Both points are notable. Sessions was once considered one of Trump’s closest advisers and enjoyed access few others had. Now he is left to endure regular public criticism by his boss. 
  
 Trump’s suggestion, too, that his top law enforcement official investigate a former political rival is astounding, and even his allies have said in the past that such a move would be unheard of in the United States. Trump, after the election, had backed away from the idea of possibly prosecuting Hillary Clinton. 
  
 Sessions’s tight relationship with Trump and the White House has unraveled since he recused himself in March from the Russia probe. The president had privately complained about that decision for weeks, and in an interview with the New York Times last week he said he would not have appointed Sessions as attorney general had he known that Sessions would do such a thing. 
  
 [Sessions says he plans to stay in role, despite Trump’s comments about him] 
  
 After Sessions recused himself, he passed on the responsibility to Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, who then appointed Mueller as special counsel overseeing the Russia investigation . 
  
 Trump could order Rosenstein — and then Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand — to fire Mueller. If they quit instead of doing so, he could appoint an acting attorney general who would. Trump could also appoint an acting attorney general with them in place — effectively passing over Rosenstein and Brand — and order that person to remove the special counsel. 
  
 Trump’s authority to jump Rosenstein and Brand, though, is murky. The Justice Department has issued opinions in the past saying that such a move is and isn’t permissible. And his pick for an acting attorney general would have to have Senate confirmation and be serving elsewhere in the government or have worked in the Justice Department for 90 days within the past 365 and be at a certain senior pay level. 
  
 (The Washington Post) 
  
 [Column: Trump or Congress can still block Mueller. I know. I wrote the rules.] 
  
 Another scenario is that Trump could make a recess appointment, said Steve Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law. Under that plan, Trump could choose an attorney general during the August recess who would serve until the end of the next Senate session, which would run to Jan. 3, 2019. That person would have the same authority as someone who is confirmed by the Senate, Vladeck said. 
  
 Among the names being floated as possible Sessions replacements are Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, according to people familiar with the conversations. 
  
 Giuliani dismissed a report mentioning his name as a possible attorney general and told CNN that Sessions “made the right decision under the rules of the Justice Department” to recuse himself. He did not return a message seeking comment. 
  
 In a statement released late Monday, Cruz said he is “deeply gratified that we have a principled conservative like Jeff Sessions serving as Attorney General. The stories being reported in the media tonight are false. My focus is and will remain on fighting every day to defend 28 million Texans in the U.S. Senate.” 
  
 Some Trump advisers said that this process could be agonizing for the attorney general, with the president’s anger flaring but no decision being reached for weeks or maybe months, leaving Sessions isolated from the White House. Sessions was at the White House complex on Monday for a routine meeting but did not meet with the president. 
  
 But not all in Trump’s orbit share the view that Sessions’s days are numbered. 
  
 Anthony Scaramucci, the new White House communications director, told CNN on Monday afternoon that Trump and Sessions “need to sit down face-to-face and have a reconciliation and a discussion of the future.” 
  
 Former House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.), a vigorous Trump ally, said in an interview that he and Trump had talked about Sessions and that Trump had indicated “he was very unhappy both with the recusal and the fact that Jeff didn’t talk to him beforehand.” But Gingrich said he would “strongly oppose” the firing of Sessions, because “I think his base likes Sessions.” 
  
 “His base thinks that on things like [violent street gangs] and sanctuary cities that Sessions is doing a fine job, and I think his base would be confused,” Gingrich said. 
  
 Gingrich also said he believed Sessions could survive the president’s criticisms. 
  
 “He said he’s beleaguered, not failed, and he is a little beleaguered,” Gingrich said. “This whole thing has been a mess.” 
  
 Trump, though, continues to let Sessions twist in the wind. One person close to Trump said the president asked him about how firing Sessions “would play in the conservative media.” Trump also asked him whether it would help to replace Sessions “with a major conservative,” the person said. 
  
 For his part, Sessions shows no signs of stepping down. 
  
 On Friday, Sessions traveled to Philadelphia to meet with law enforcement officials. In his speech, he vowed to crack down on illegal immigration and on “sanctuary cities” that are not communicating with federal authorities about undocumented immigrants. He spoke of how hard he is working, despite having none of his U.S. attorneys in place and most of his senior officials still not confirmed by the Senate. 
  
 “I do my best every day,” Sessions said, “to fulfill the goals the president and I share.” 
  
 Several of Sessions’s Republican former colleagues on Capitol Hill have defended him in the face of the president’s criticism. 
  
 Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), a close friend, said that Sessions was “doing just fine.” He also encouraged the president to try to patch up his relationship with his attorney general. 
  
 “They’re both adults, and they can work it out,” Cornyn said. |||||