The Food and Drug Administration on Monday approved the first drug shown to reduce the risk of HIV infection, the latest milestone in the 30-year battle against the virus that causes AIDS. 
  
 The agency approved Gilead Sciences' pill Truvada as a preventive measure for healthy people who are at high risk of acquiring HIV through sexual activity, such as those who have HIV-infected partners. The decision comes less than two weeks after the agency approved another landmark product: the first over-the-counter HIV test that Americans can use in the privacy of their homes. 
  
 The two developments are seen as the biggest steps in years toward curbing the spread of HIV in the U.S., which has held steady at about 50,000 new infections per year for the last 15 years. An estimated 1.2 million Americans have HIV, which develops into AIDS unless treated with antiviral drugs. And it's estimated that one-fifth, or about 240,000 people, are unaware that they are infected. 
  
 "I think the combination of self-testing and a medicine that you can take at home to prevent infection could mean a whole new approach to HIV prevention that is a bit more realistic," said Dr. Demetre Daskalakis of New York University's Langone Medical Center, who served on the FDA panel that recommended approving Truvada. While a positive step forward, Daskalakis added that Truvada would likely be unavailable for many people without health insurance, who often face the greatest risk of acquiring HIV. 
  
 Researchers had long sought to create a pill that could help stem the epidemic. Public health advocates said Monday that Truvada represents a major breakthrough, both as a medical therapy and as a means of expanding other preventive measures. Patients who get a prescription for Truvada will be expected to take part in a comprehensive HIV prevention plan, which experts say will enhance the drug's impact. 
  
 "It really marks a new era in HIV prevention because in adding Truvada as a prevention strategy, what comes with it is expanded access to HIV testing, condoms and preventive counseling and support," said James Loduca, vice president of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation. 
  
 But HIV experts have raised concerns that patients might not use the drug correctly. Dr. Tom Giordano of Baylor College of Medicine said Monday the drug must be taken every day to be effective, and would be most effective for a relatively small group of people. 
  
 "It's been most effective in people who are at very high risk and are able to take the drug on a regular basis," said Giordano, who served on the FDA panel that recommended approving the drug. "When you really boil it down that's going to be a relatively focused population, but it's an important population to treat." 
  
 The drug's label carries a warning that people should be tested to make sure they don't have HIV before starting Truvada. Patients who already have the virus could develop resistance to the drug, making their disease more difficult to treat. The label also warns of side effects, including kidney and liver problems. 
  
 Gilead Sciences Inc. has marketed Truvada since 2004 as a treatment for people who are already infected with the virus. The once-a-day pill is a combination of two older HIV drugs, Emtriva and Viread. 
  
 Starting in 2010, studies showed that the drug could prevent people from contracting HIV when used as a precautionary measure. A three-year study found that daily doses cut the risk of infection in healthy gay and bisexual men by 42 percent, when accompanied by condoms and counseling. Last year, another study found that Truvada reduced infection by 75 percent in heterosexual couples in which one partner was infected with HIV and the other was not. 
  
 Because Truvada is on the market to manage HIV, some doctors already prescribe it as a preventive measure. FDA approval will allow Gilead Sciences to formally market the drug for that use, which could dramatically increase prescriptions. 
  
 Truvada's groundbreaking preventive ability has exposed disagreements about managing the disease among those in the HIV community. Groups including the AIDS Healthcare Foundation asked the FDA to reject the new indication, saying it could give patients a false sense of security and reduce the use of condoms, the most reliable preventive measure against HIV. 
  
 But FDA scientists said Monday said there was no indication from clinical trials that Truvada users were more likely to engage in risky sexual behavior. 
  
 "What we found was that condom use increased over time and sexually transmitted infections either remained at baseline levels or decreased," said Dr. Debra Birnkrant, FDA's director of antiviral products. "So in essence, we don't have any strong evidence that condoms were not used or there was a decrease in condom use." 
  
 Gilead Sciences said Monday that it would keep the pill at its current price, nearly $14,000 per year. Even at that price, HIV physicians said the drug could be cost effective if it prevents people from contracting the virus. 
  
 "It is expensive, but on the other hand it's far cheaper than a lifetime of HIV treatment," said Dr. Joel Gallant of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. "So if there are people who will not use condoms but are willing to use this, then for those people it's cost effective." 
  
 The lifetime cost of treating one person diagnosed with the AIDS virus has been estimated at more than $600,000. 
  
 The decision by the FDA on Truvada follows its approval of the OraQuick test earlier this month. The test, which detects the presence of HIV in saliva collected using a mouth swab and returns a result within 40 minutes, is aimed at people who might not otherwise be tested. The FDA has said the test is not 100 percent accurate. ||||| Deciding On Truvada: Who Should Take HIV Prevention Pill? 
  
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Richard Knox/NPR Richard Knox/NPR 
  
 There's something new to prevent HIV infections. 
  
 The Food and Drug Administration on Monday approved a once-a-day pill that can drastically lower a person's risk of getting the virus that causes AIDS. 
  
 It's called Truvada — the first HIV prevention pill. 
  
 It's not cheap — around $13,000 a year — and it's not clear what insurers will pay for it. And there's worry that people taking the pill might relax safe-sex precautions. 
  
 But health officials hope the pill will help reduce the number of Americans who get HIV every year — a figure that has hovered around 50,000 for years. 
  
 While it sounds simple, the new prevention strategy involves a bunch of complicated issues. 
  
 "It's not just, 'Here's a pill, take it, and you're rendered protected," says Dr. Kenneth Mayer of Fenway Health in Boston. He has been researching the strategy for years. It's called pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. 
  
 Mayer says there's one very important thing people have to know before they start using Truvada for prevention. "We want to be sure before starting a person on PrEP that they're not HIV-infected," he says. 
  
 That's because Truvada alone isn't good enough to treat HIV. The virus could develop resistance to the drug if it's the only antiviral someone is taking. For the same reason, people on Truvada who are HIV-negative have to get retested for HIV every few months. 
  
 Then people have to commit to taking the pill every day. If they don't, the protection drops off quickly. If they do, studies show they can lower their risk of getting HIV by 90 percent. 
  
 Finally, people also have to keep using condoms and limiting their number of sexual partners, just as if they weren't taking the pill. 
  
 "Are people going to be numbed into a sense of security that they can have unprotected sex whenever they want if they're going to be taking this medication?" Mayer asks. "The answer is we just don't know." 
  
 So far, studies haven't found an increase in riskier behavior. 
  
 These issues are complex enough that Mayer doesn't expect an avalanche of people using Truvada anytime soon. "It's certainly not something for everyone," he says. 
  
 One group it may be for are committed couples who are what doctors call "discordant" when it comes to HIV — one partner has it, the other doesn't. Couples like James Callahan and Kevin Kirk of San Francisco. 
  
 "I'm positive and he's negative," Callahan says. "I don't know that we identify that way, but it's just a fact." Kirk adds: "From my end, I've never really put a lot of thought into it." 
  
 Kirk and Callahan have been together for more than five years. Recently they sat down and talked about whether Kirk, the HIV-negative partner, might want to start taking Truvada. 
  
 At first he was wary of the idea. But 40 minutes into the discussion, he said something that surprised his partner. 
  
 "That would make you sleep a little better at night," Kirk said. 
  
 "It would?" Callahan responded. 
  
 "It would, yeah. I think so." 
  
 "So, say ... you won the lottery and you got to take the pill for free for the rest of your life. Would you do it just to be safe?" Callahan asked. 
  
 "Probably, yeah. Yeah, probably would." 
  
 "Interesting," said Callahan. As he thought about it more, he began to warm to the idea. 
  
 "If we didn't take the pill and you were to become positive," Callahan said, "someday I would definitely say, 'Why didn't we? Why didn't we?' " 
  
 They didn't make a decision on the spot. But they're definitely thinking about it. 
  
 But in the bigger picture, Kevin Kirk probably isn't the most important kind of candidate to be taking Truvada for prevention. After all, Callahan is on antiviral treatment, which has lowered the amount of HIV in his blood to undetectable levels. 
  
 Dr. Mayer of Fenway Health says some argue that it wouldn't be necessary for a man like Kirk to take Truvada for prevention. But he says it's not cut-and-dried. "If you say, 'Is it possible that my partner could transmit HIV to me?' the answer is yes, it's possible. Does it happen often? No, it's exceedingly rare," he says. Studies have shown that HIV can still exist in semen even when it can't be found in the blood. 
  
 Mayer says it would be more important to get Truvada to men and women who have a much higher risk of infection. They might live in places like Washington, D.C., where men have a 1-in-17 chance of getting infected and thus are at risk of infecting their partners. 
  
 Dr. Deborah Cohan, an obstetrician-gynecologist at the University of California, San Francisco, says Truvada will be really important for a woman in a discordant couple. 
  
 "She is not particularly able to ensure condom use consistently," Cohan says. "She does not have control in that way in their sexual dynamics. He may or may not be on anti-retroviral therapy. But certainly there's no way for her to force him to take those medications." 
  
 Cohan has already been prescribing Truvada for women in these situations. Even before FDA approval, individual doctors could do that because the drug is already on the market for treating HIV. 
  
 "The women who I've given Truvada are so immensely appreciative that they have some control over whether they get HIV or not," Cohan says. 
  
 And there's one subset of heterosexual couples for whom Truvada will be a special boon — one where the woman is uninfected, the man has HIV, and they want to conceive a child. 
  
 Currently the only safe way to do that is a complicated and expensive process called sperm-washing. The man's sperm is treated so it's free of the virus, and then the woman's egg is fertilized in a laboratory and implanted in her uterus. 
  
 Prescribing Truvada for her could help avoid all that. 
  
 Cohan says about 75,000 U.S. couples could benefit. |||||