Jon & Kate Plus DIVORCED 
  
 More Today in TMZ History 
  
 TMZ has learned ... It's official --are divorced.has signed the final papers, making Jon and Kate officially single., Kate's lawyer, tells TMZ, under the agreement, "Our client will continue to reside with all eight of her children in the former marital home."As for Kate, she says, "I am very relieved that our divorce has been finalized, and I look forward to the New Year, focusing on our children." Kate calls the divorce "challenging," and says she will now focus on "restructuring our lives."A rep for Jon tells us, "While the arbitration proceedings are still a work in progress, Jon and Kate will remain binded in their commitment to their eight wonderful children. Jon is confident that he and Kate will be able to move forward in a fashion that will be in the best interest of the Gosselin family."As for who got what, Momjian simply says, "We are very pleased with the final outcome."Judge Tilson inked the docs after the arbitrator came down with his ruling on how Jon and Kate's property will be divided. ||||| Jon Gosselin -- Backed Into a Corner 
  
 is in immediate financial trouble now that his divorce fromis final ... because he got nailed with huge child support payments and has no real way of paying ... sources tell TMZ.We've learned under the arbitrator's award, Jon must make huge child support payments -- we're told 5 figures a month. And here's the problem.has now shut down Jon's ability to take outside jobs. The irony -- he did himself in.We've also learned Jon was charged every penny of the $235,000 that he withdrew from their joint account. That amount was deducted from his piece of the settlement.As for Jon's claim that Kate should be docked for money she withdrew ... we've learned Jon struck out. The arbitrator determined every penny she withdrew was for the benefit of the kids.Under the terms of the divorce decree, Kate has primary custody and Jon gets visitation -- both Jon and Kate agreed to that in advance. And, they agreed, neither party would get spousal support.Score a big one for, Kate's lawyer. |||||