Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane leaves the courtroom after closing arguments in her perjury and obstruction trial at the Montgomery County Courthouse, Monday, Aug. 15, 2016, in Norristown,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane leaves the courtroom after closing arguments in her perjury and obstruction trial at the Montgomery County Courthouse, Monday, Aug. 15, 2016, in Norristown, Pa., (Jessica Griffin/The Philadelphia Inquirer via AP, Pool) (Associated Press) 
  
 HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — The Latest on Pennsylvania Attorney General Kathleen Kane (all times local): 
  
 1:30 p.m. 
  
 Pennsylvania's attorney general is resigning amid pressure from the governor and lawmakers a day after jurors found her guilty of abusing her power and lying to cover it up. 
  
 Her office announced in a statement Tuesday that Kathleen Kane would resign at the end of the workday Wednesday. 
  
 Kane's exit completes a spectacular fall for the state's highest-ranking female politician. She's a former county prosecutor who soared to victory three years ago as an outsider. 
  
 But the first woman and first Democrat elected to attorney general in Pennsylvania squandered her early popularity. 
  
 Ultimately, the 50-year-old Kane was undone by what prosecutors portrayed as a personal vendetta for her critics. Now, she's facing jail time and has had her law license suspended. 
  
 Kane's lawyers have vowed to appeal. 
  
 ___ 
  
 9:25 a.m. 
  
 Pennsylvania's attorney general is facing growing pressure to resign after her conviction on charges she abused her office's power to smear a rival and tried to cover it up. 
  
 Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf says it's time for Democrat Kathleen Kane to do the right thing and step aside. Top state senators threatened a vote ordering her removal from office under a constitutional provision never used in modern history. 
  
 Kane's top deputy, Bruce L. Castor Jr., planned a news conference Tuesday afternoon to address questions. 
  
 Kane was convicted Monday night of perjury, obstruction and official oppression. Her lawyers say she'll appeal. 
  
 Kane doesn't have to resign immediately and could potentially stay in office through Jan. 17, when a new attorney general will be sworn in. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1:50 a.m. 
  
 Pennsylvania's attorney general is expected to address her job status within the next few days after she was convicted of leaking secret criminal files and then lying about it. 
  
 Fifty-year-old Kathleen Kane showed little emotion Monday night as the jury convicted her of all nine counts, including two felony perjury counts. 
  
 Kane was accused of leaking grand jury secrets to embarrass a rival prosecutor, who she blamed for a critical news article. 
  
 She lost her law license over the charges and is fighting pressure to step down. Gov. Tom Wolf, a fellow Democrat, again urged her to resign. 
  
 Kane did not testify during the trial, but has said she believes she was targeted for unearthing lewd emails on state computers by what she calls an "old-boys network." ||||| NORRISTOWN -- Attorney General Kathleen Kane was found guilty of all charges by a jury of 12 citizens she represented as Pennsylvania's top law enforcement officer. 
  
 Kane leaned forward in her seat to hear the jury's verdict, but showed no outward emotion. 
  
 Prosecutors argued that Kane orchestrated a leak of secret grand jury materials and then lied about it in order to exact revenge against former prosecutors from the office who she blamed for embarrassing news coverage. 
  
 In addition to the two felony perjury charges, Kane faced two counts each of the misdemeanors of false swearing and obstructing the administration of law or other government functions. She also faced misdemeanor charges of criminal conspiracy related to obstruction, criminal conspiracy related to official oppression and official oppression 
  
 Jurors heard four days of testimony from prosecution witnesses ranging from political consultant Josh Morrow, who told the jury he conspired with Kane to leak information from a 2009 grand jury investigation to a newspaper, to Adrian King, a former deputy attorney general and long-time friend of Kane who told jurors that Kane tried to frame him. 
  
 The defense rested Friday without calling Kathleen Kane or any other witness to testify. They argued that the prosecution had not proven its case. 
  
 Kane is the first Democrat and the first woman to be elected to the post of attorney general. 
  
 http://www.pennlive.com/news/2016/08/as_kathleen_kanes_criminal_tri.html 
  
 Follow live updates from the courthouse: |||||