From the results of the UK's EU referendum and the US election to the volatile state of the global economy, to takeovers and resignations of top bosses.
It's been a year of innovations and miscalculations - a year where the gap between the poor and the ultra-rich has been incredibly visible.
We want you to help us with our round-up of the business stories that have really affected you this year. Can you illustrate how you've been affected by the markets, money, the global economy, Pokemon Go and more?
We would also like to know what the image you choose means to you, so please send us a short explanation when you get in touch.
Please not this not a competition or a specific commission and there is no payment for any contribution if you choose to share your image with us for potential curation.
The end of the year is coming up, so you only have until 20 December to get your submission to us.
Email dhruti.shah@bbc.co.uk with your image using a file transfer site such as WeTransfer or Dropbox or any other site of your choice
You can directly message us your image on Facebook
You can tweet us using the hashtag #drawthebiznews to @BBCBusiness
If your contribution is a video, you can also upload it to a sharing site (such as Vimeo, Instagram or YouTube, but not restricted to those) and email the link to dhruti.shah@bbc.co.uk using the hashtag #drawthebiznews. You'll need to upload your entry to a picture or video-sharing website where we can access it.
Please include your contact details, an explanation of how you created it and your location.
Your image must be your own creation. If your contribution includes images of someone else, they must give permission for their image to be used. Any music you include must be your own composition and performance. If your contribution is filmed at a venue/location, you must have permission to film there.
Your entry must not be defamatory or obscene or contain any element of advertisement material for commercial products or services
If you are under 18, your parent or guardian must submit your contribution and confirm they are happy for it to be published. If your contribution includes children (under 18), then the parent or guardian of each child must give written permission for the child's image to be used.
Videos or animations should last no longer than one minute.
The BBC may share your contribution with our websites, TV, including World News TV and radio networks and with our partners around the world, as well as on social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube
Email dhruti.shah@bbc.co.uk with your image using a file transfer site such as https://wetransfer.com/ or tweet @BBCBusiness or message us on Facebook.
Read our terms and conditions.