Matt Ritchie fired in from 12 yards to put the hosts ahead inside a minute.
Kane levelled from the spot after being brought down in the box by goalkeeper Artur Boruc, before Mousa Dembele side-footed Tottenham in front.
Erik Lamela tapped in the third and Kane slid in Christian Eriksen's cross before pouncing on another Boruc error to complete his treble.
Kane netted the second Premier League hat-trick of his career, having scored only once for his club in 13 previous appearances this season.
Mauricio Pochettino's side remain unbeaten in the league since the opening day of the campaign and climb to sixth in the table.
Bournemouth, who conceded five goals for the second successive game, lie 17th and two points above the relegation zone.
Relive Tottenham's 5-1 win at Bournemouth
Kane established himself as one of the Premier League's top strikers with 21 league goals last season but the 22-year-old started 2015-16 slowly, with only one goal at club level to add to his two in Euro 2016 qualifiers for England.
However, he looked sharp and confident against Bournemouth, showing neat feet to earn the penalty from which he ended his six-game goal drought in all competitions.
Kane, whose previous Premier League hat-trick came against Leicester in March, provided the cross for Lamela's first-half goal which effectively ended the game as a contest.
He rounded off the move of the match to make it 4-1 after the break, converting Eriksen's excellent delivery from the left touchline, before tapping in his third and Tottenham's fifth from a yard out.
As well as his goals, Kane found the target with his other two shots at goal and was a willing runner in attack, often stretching play by supporting Eriksen on Tottenham's left.
Another young Englishman impressed during a professional Tottenham victory, which extended their unbeaten Premier League run to nine matches.
Eric Dier started his Spurs career as a defender but has made one of their defensive-midfield spots his own this season.
Dier was successful with 55 of his 61 passes against Bournemouth (90.2%) and was extremely effective in breaking up play in the first half, allowing Spurs to recover from their nightmare start.
The 21-year-old has yet to receive senior international recognition but he could well follow some of his Tottenham colleagues into the England squad in the near future.
While Tottenham were worthy of their victory, they were grateful that Bournemouth goalkeeper Boruc had a day to forget.
The Poland international had been suffering with a thigh injury but was fit enough to be recalled to the starting line-up in place of Adam Federici, who conceded five times in the Cherries' hammering at Manchester City eight days earlier.
Boruc rushed off his line to bring down Kane for Tottenham's penalty and then dropped Kane's left-wing cross at Lamela's feet for Spurs' third.
The 35-year-old was also at fault for Tottenham's fifth, spilling Toby Alderweireld's header and allowing Kane to tap in for his hat-trick.
Boruc did make good second-half saves from Kane and substitute Clinton N'Jie, but by then the damage was done.
Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe: "Individual errors in the last two games have cost us a lot of goals and it's not a trend we can continue. We're going to have to break that.
"It's a tough day, especially when we started so well. In the early stages, I thought we were the better team. The goals came at terrible times and it killed our confidence."
Howe on Boruc: "He doesn't have to say anything. We're all in this together through good times and bad. We had a lot of good times last season and Artur was a big part of that.
"There's no blame attached but we do know that we can't give teams goals. It's hard enough to score without giving goals away at the other end."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Tottenham head coach Mauricio Pochettino: "Again, I was disappointed with how we started and conceding a goal, but we woke up and it was a good reaction from the team. I'm very pleased.
"We put them under pressure with the way that we pressed high. The effort was fantastic and I'm very pleased with Harry Kane's hat-trick.
"It's important for us, for the team and for him. We always believed in him."
Bournemouth put their Premier League troubles to one side on Wednesday when they travel to Liverpool for a Capital One Cup fourth-round tie (19:45 GMT), before an away game at local rivals Southampton on Sunday, 1 November (16:00 GMT).
Tottenham have an eight-day break before hosting Aston Villa - who sacked former Spurs boss Tim Sherwood on Sunday - on Monday, 2 November (20:00 GMT).
Match ends, Bournemouth 1, Tottenham Hotspur 5.
Second Half ends, Bournemouth 1, Tottenham Hotspur 5.
Attempt blocked. Danny Rose (Tottenham Hotspur) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Christian Eriksen.
Offside, Bournemouth. Yann Kermorgant tries a through ball, but Adam Smith is caught offside.
Foul by Jan Vertonghen (Tottenham Hotspur).
Yann Kermorgant (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Tottenham Hotspur. Conceded by Artur Boruc.
Attempt saved. Clinton N'Jie (Tottenham Hotspur) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Dele Alli.
Substitution, Tottenham Hotspur. Clinton N'Jie replaces Harry Kane.
Substitution, Tottenham Hotspur. Kieran Trippier replaces Kyle Walker.
Attempt missed. Yann Kermorgant (Bournemouth) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Charlie Daniels with a cross.
Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Danny Rose.
Substitution, Bournemouth. Adam Smith replaces Marc Pugh.
Offside, Tottenham Hotspur. Eric Dier tries a through ball, but Harry Kane is caught offside.
Foul by Harry Kane (Tottenham Hotspur).
Artur Boruc (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Danny Rose (Tottenham Hotspur) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Matt Ritchie (Bournemouth).
Offside, Bournemouth. Matt Ritchie tries a through ball, but Yann Kermorgant is caught offside.
Attempt missed. Matt Ritchie (Bournemouth) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Simon Francis.
Substitution, Bournemouth. Yann Kermorgant replaces Glenn Murray.
Substitution, Tottenham Hotspur. Ryan Mason replaces Mousa Dembélé.
Foul by Danny Rose (Tottenham Hotspur).
Glenn Murray (Bournemouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Christian Eriksen (Tottenham Hotspur) hits the right post with a right footed shot from outside the box.
Attempt blocked. Simon Francis (Bournemouth) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Toby Alderweireld.
Corner,  Bournemouth. Conceded by Hugo Lloris.
Attempt saved. Matt Ritchie (Bournemouth) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Simon Francis.
Goal!  Bournemouth 1, Tottenham Hotspur 5. Harry Kane (Tottenham Hotspur) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal following a corner.
Attempt saved. Toby Alderweireld (Tottenham Hotspur) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Christian Eriksen with a cross.
Corner,  Tottenham Hotspur. Conceded by Artur Boruc.
Attempt saved. Harry Kane (Tottenham Hotspur) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Kyle Walker.
Substitution, Bournemouth. Eunan O'Kane replaces Joshua King.
Corner,  Tottenham Hotspur. Conceded by Glenn Murray.
Attempt blocked. Dele Alli (Tottenham Hotspur) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Goal!  Bournemouth 1, Tottenham Hotspur 4. Harry Kane (Tottenham Hotspur) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Christian Eriksen.
Kyle Walker (Tottenham Hotspur) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andrew Surman (Bournemouth).
Harry Kane (Tottenham Hotspur) wins a free kick in the defensive half.