The bottom line: Americans are pulling together, every day, to help one another; there are medical advances that will help millions, and not even D.C. is that bad all the time. But, much of the good news never makes headlines. 
  
 With a number of natural disasters raging across the country this year, and political discourse at its peak, it's important to remember that there is good news out there. 
  
 1. The kids are alright 
  
 Teen birth rates hit a new low in 2016, dropping 9% since 2015 and 67% since 1991. And Washington University found that teens aren't abusing alcohol or drugs, or engaging in "delinquent behavior" as much as they used to. 
  
 2. We're more environmentally friendly 
  
 Boston has joined other cities in banning single-use plastic bags. St. Louis committed to a transition to 100% renewable energy by 2035 — it currently gets only 5% of its energy from renewable sources. 
  
 3. Technology is making a difference 
  
 Tesla restored electricity to a children's hospital in Puerto Rico after it was hit by hurricanes in September, and a North Carolina police department used a drone to find a missing 81-year-old woman with dementia within 25 minutes of her disappearance. 
  
 4. Medical advances are helping millions 
  
 The FDA cleared an earpiece that may help block symptoms of opioid withdrawal. And Portal Instruments, a private medical device company licensed from MIT, has made a needle-free drug injection device. 
  
 5. The economy is booming 
  
 13 states saw record-lows of unemployment this year; nationally, the unemployment level is at the lowest it has been since 2000. And financial satisfaction hit a 24-year high this year. 
  
 6. We're becoming more tolerant 
  
 Support for allowing same-sex marriage is at its highest point in 20 years, according to a Pew Research survey. For the first time, a majority of Baby Boomers (56%) favor allowing same-sex marriage, and almost the same amount of Republicans favor allowing it (47%) as opposing it (48%). 
  
 7. Space exploration 
  
 Vice President Mike Pence said in October that the U.S. "will return...to the moon not only to leave behind footprints and flags but to build the foundation we need to send Americans to Mars and beyond." In September, NASA's Cassini spacecraft ended its journey after bringing us some incredible findings. 
  
 8. Neighbors are looking out for one another 
  
 A man in North Carolina has started the non-profit ChemoCars, a service that provides cancer patients with free rides to and from their chemo treatments. More than 6,000 Texas inmates decided to donate $53,863 of their commissary funds to Hurricane Harvey victims. And, a GoFundMe campaign raised more than $11 million for the victims of the horrific Las Vegas shooting in October that left 58 people dead, and hundreds injured. 
  
 9. American philanthropy is reaching beyond our borders 
  
 Uber partnered with the charity Whizz-Kidz to give those who use wheelchairs in the UK free rides to polling places this summer. And The Carter Center, run by former President Jimmy Carter, announced in October that it helped eliminate the disfiguring tropical disease elephantiasis from two states in Nigeria, where it was the most prevalent. 
  
 Editor's Note: Sign up for Axios newsletters to get our smart brevity delivered to your inbox every morning. 
  
  
  
  |||||  
  
 Secretary of State Rex Tillerson speaks at the State Department on Aug. 24. (Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP) 
  
 President Trump “speaks for himself” on his values, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Sunday. 
  
 The U.S. commitment to tolerance and equality is unchanged, Tillerson said, in the wake of controversy over Trump's response to racially tinged violence. 
  
 “We express America's values from the State Department — our commitment to freedom, our commitment to equal treatment of people the world over,” Tillerson said on “Fox News Sunday,” adding: “And that message has never changed.” 
  
 A United Nations committee last week criticized Trump for what it deemed his failure to fully condemn hatred and bigotry in the wake of deadly violence at a white supremacist march in Charlottesville earlier this month. 
  
 “I don't believe anyone doubts the American people's values,” or the U.S. government's willingness to defend them, Tillerson said. 
  
 Asked whether Trump's reaction, which included a statement that there was blame on “many sides” for the violence in Charlottesville, reflects American values, Tillerson answered evenly. 
  
 “The president speaks for himself,” he said. 
  
 [Trump confronts unprecedented criticism on Charlottesville from adviser Cohn] 
  
 When host Chris Wallace asked whether Tillerson was “separating himself” from Trump's remarks, Tillerson answered, “I've made my own comment as to our values.” 
  
 Tillerson's remarks followed pointed criticism of Trump's reaction from economic adviser Gary Cohn last week. 
  
 On North Korea, Tillerson said the missile tests don't necessarily mean that Kim Jong Un's regime is thumbing its nose at the offer of negotiations with the United States. 
  
 “Clearly, they are still messaging us, as well, that they are not prepared to completely back away from their positions,” Tillerson said. “We continue to want the Kim regime to understand there is a different path that he can choose.” 
  
 The launch of three short-range missiles Friday followed statements from Trump and Tillerson last week that took note of what Tillerson called recent “restraint” on the part of Pyongyang. 
  
 Until Friday, North Korea had not launched any missiles since the unanimous approval of new United Nations Security Council sanctions three weeks ago. That caused Trump to say that North Korea was finally “starting to respect us.” 
  
 “I don’t know that we're wrong,” Tillerson said. “It's going to take some time to tell.” |||||