Republican hopes of capturing the 28th Senate District following Democratic Sen. Jenny Oropeza's death were quashed Tuesday as the late South Bay senator's name cruised to victory. 
  
 With all 535 precincts reporting, Oropeza, who died Oct. 20, won with 58.4 percent of the vote. Republican John Stammreich was second with 35.7 percent, and Libertarian David Ruskin was a distant third, with 5.9 percent. 
  
 A special election will be scheduled to fill the seat due to Oropeza's posthumous victory. 
  
 Democratic voter registration almost doubles that of Republicans in the 28th, which includes Torrance, Carson, El Segundo, Westchester, the Harbor Area and the beach cities. 
  
 In spite of that, Stammreich was optimistic ahead of the election, in part because a poll commissioned by his campaign suggested the race was closer than the district's recent electoral history would suggest. 
  
 The poll had Stammreich one-percentage point behind Oropeza, with a third remaining undecided. 
  
 Stammreich counted on cutting into Oropeza's traditional support in Carson through his opposition of Measure H, a one-cent increase in the city's current 9.75 percent sales tax. Measure H failed Tuesday, but whatever advantage Stammreich gained through his 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 involvement wasn't enough to tip the race in his favor. 
  
 The tone of the campaign for the 28th District turned sour on its final day, with Stammreich and the California Republican Party filing complaints accusing the Democratic Party and Secretary of State Debra Bowen of using a late-hour campaign mailing to "illegally influence" voters to cast a ballot for Oropeza. 
  
 The correspondence, titled "Election Information," was sent via mail to Democratic and decline-to-state voters and outlined what would happen if Oropeza won. 
  
 The mailing closed with Bowen's name and title. 
  
 Republicans allege that the mailing purports to be an official document and thus violates a section of the California Penal Code prohibiting publishing a campaign advertisement that falsely depicts official documents. 
  
 Violators of the law can be charged with a misdemeanor and fined up to $50,000. 
  
 On Monday, Democrats jeered at the complaint, saying that the piece clearly identifies the California Democratic Party as the sender. 
  
 The mailing cost Democrats $44,000, according to Jason Kinney, a spokesman for California's Senate Democrats. 
  
 The Democratic Party also engaged in a robo-call phone campaign encouraging voters to choose Oropeza. 
  
 Chuck Bell, the state GOP's attorney, did not rule out challenging the results of the election based on any "illegal conduct affecting the vote." 
  
 For now, 28th District voters are headed for a special election. 
  
 The governor will have 14 days from Dec. 6, the start of the legislative term, to declare the seat vacant and schedule a special election in 112 to 126 days, according to the California Secretary of State's Office. 
  
 Eight weeks before that, all party candidates run in a primary. If a candidate gets more than 50 percent of the vote, that person wins the seat. 
  
 If no candidate reaches that threshold, the top vote-getter in each party is placed on the ballot for a runoff, the state said. 
  
 The process could cost millions of dollars. 
  
 According to the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/ 
  
 County Clerk's Office, the last comparable special election was in the 26th Senate District in 2009, when Mark Ridley-Thomas left the Legislature to join the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors. 
  
 That election included a runoff and cost taxpayers more than $2.1 million. 
  
 eric.bradley@dailybreeze.com 
  
  
  
  ||||| The seed for Wide00014 was: 
  
 - Slash pages from every domain on the web: 
  
  
  
  
  
 -- a ranking of all URLs that have more than one incoming inter-domain link (rank was determined by number of incoming links using Wide00012 inter domain links) 
  
  
  
 -- up to a maximum of 100 most highly ranked URLs per domain 
  
 - Top ranked pages (up to a max of 100) from every linked-to domain using the Wide00012 inter-domain navigational link graph |||||