Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| If you had told me yesterday that today would involve Rupert Murdoch quoting the Koran I wouldn't have believed you — 
  
 Sam Bailey (@entropymedia) May 26, 2013 
  
 Yes, Rupert Murdoch is tweeting the Quran. What could go wrong? 
  
 Get real.Koran says(1) “whoever killed a human being…it shall be regarded as having killed all mankind… — Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) May 26, 2013 
  
 Koran(2) “except as punishment for murder or other villainy” then defined as “those who wage war against Allah” punishable by beheading. — Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) May 26, 2013 
  
 After two passages, he wasn’t finished. 
  
 @rupertmurdoch So does the Old Testament. — Lisa Goldman (@lisang) May 26, 2013 
  
 @lisangso does the Old Testament.True, but we have had something called the Reformation.Remember? — Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) May 26, 2013 
  
 For reference, he sent these two tweets yesterday: 
  
 Many UK tweeters say no terror.Admirable, gutsy, but get real and go listen at some mosques. Admit most okay, but others really scary. — Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) May 25, 2013 
  
 With UK on terror alert, Cameron off on holiday in Ibiza. Unbelievable. — Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) May 25, 2013 
  
 We guess some things you have to read to believe. 
  
 FYI: @rupertmurdoch is in the middle of unspooling some Koran quotes right now. — Ben Welsh (@palewire) May 26, 2013 
  
 Oh dear Rupert Murdoch and the Koran. This is not going to end well. — Liar MPs (@LiarMPs) May 26, 2013 
  
 Apparently Rupert Murdoch is tweeting the Koran today (really!!!). It could all go wrong when he gets to page 3. — Mr C (@robodog888) May 26, 2013 
  
 What the hell? @rupertmurdoch is tweeting the Koran today. — Jeff Jarvis (@jeffjarvis) May 26, 2013 
  
 @rupertmurdoch Have you been hacked? — Tigs (@Tigs30) May 26, 2013 
  
 What is @rupertmurdoch doing stirring trouble by quoting the Quran? You know the zealots will come crashing down on you.. — Hafizh Adinugraha (@hafizadinugraha) May 26, 2013 
  
 However you planned to start your Memorial Day weekend, you probably didn’t expect to read Rupert Murdoch tweeting the Quran. We didn’t either. 
  
 Related: 
  
 Twitter tries to decipher Rupert Murdoch’s cryptic ‘James’ 
  
 Follow @twitchyteam ||||| Police on Monday arrested a 10th suspect in connection with the vicious killing of an off-duty British soldier on a London street in an apparent Islamic extremist attack. 
  
 English Defence League's supporters protest outside Downing Street in London in support of the British armed forces, Monday, May 27, 2013. (AP Photo/Sang Tan) (Associated Press) 
  
 The mother of killed Drummer Lee Rigby, Lyn Rigby, centre, holds onto a teddy bear as she joins his stepfather Ian, and other family members looking at floral tributes outside Woolwich Barracks as they... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Sept. 5, 2005 file photo, Muslim cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed gestures while talking to the media, in Beirut, Lebanon. The slaying of a British soldier in east London cast a spotlight on... (Associated Press) 
  
 English Defence League supporters protest outside Downing Street in London in support of the British armed forces, after the brutal killing of an off-duty British soldier in a London street last week,... (Associated Press) 
  
 English Defence League supporters protest outside Downing Street in London in support of the British armed forces, after the brutal killing of an off-duty British soldier in a London street last week,... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - Members of Somalia's al- Shabab militant group patrol on foot on the outskirts of Mogadishu in this Monday, March, 5, 2012 file photo. The slaying of a British soldier in east London cast a spotlight... (Associated Press) 
  
 George Groves of Britain, Commonwealth super middleweight champion, left, and Noe Gonzalez Alcoba of Uruguay pose for members of the media during a press conference at O2 Arena in London, Wednesday, May... (Associated Press) 
  
 English Defence League supporters protest outside Downing Street in London in support of the British armed forces, after the brutal killing of an off-duty British soldier in a London street last week,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Police officers drag two counter demonstrators, United Against Fascism's supporters, away from a confrontation with English Defence League's supporters at Whitehall, London Monday, May 27, 2013. EDL supporters... (Associated Press) 
  
 The 50-year-old man was detained in Welling, east of London, on suspicion of conspiring to murder 25-year-old soldier Lee Rigby, Scotland Yard said. Police didn't provide further details about the suspect's identity. 
  
 The latest arrest came as around 1,000 supporters of a far-right group marched through central London protesting the killing, clashing with a smaller group of anti-fascist demonstrators. 
  
 Police have already taken nine other suspects into custody, including the two main ones who were shot and wounded by officers at the scene of Wednesday's killing. Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22, remain under armed guard in separate London hospitals. Four other men remain in custody at a London police station. 
  
 Witnesses say Rigby, who had served in Afghanistan, was walking near his barracks in southeast London's Woolwich area when he was run over by a vehicle and repeatedly stabbed with knives and meat cleavers. 
  
 The gruesome scene was recorded on witnesses' cellphones, and a video picked up by British media showed one of the two main suspects, holding a bloody knife and cleaver, making political statements and warning of more violence. Hard-line Muslim leaders have identified the man in the video as Adebolajo. 
  
 Kenyan officials have confirmed that Adebolajo was arrested in Kenya in 2010 with five others near the country's border with Somalia. Police believed Adebolajo was going to work with Somali militant group al-Shabab. 
  
 The killing in London has fed a spike in anti-Muslim sentiment in Britain, with police and activists reporting a surge in hate crimes, including violence and vandalism. 
  
 A mosque in the northern England town of Grimsby was firebombed Sunday night, according to the mosque's chairman, Diler Gharib, who told a local newspaper he was discussing how to thank his neighbors for the support they had shown his community in the past days when the building was hit with gasoline bombs. 
  
 Police said they arrested two people in connection with the incident. The fire was extinguished, and no one was injured, they said. |||||