*UPDATE: The statistic above, which has been cited repeatedly including by PBS, may be wrong. Or at least it does not appear to be in the academic study that PBS referred to. Our readers and others have said that the correct percentage is ~2%-3%, not 9%. 
  
 ORIGINAL: It has often been said that lotteries are a tax on the poor. 
  
 And that's a fair description. 
  
 Joe Weisenthal pointed out yesterday that poor people regularly buy lottery tickets, while rich people only buy them when the jackpots have gotten huge. 
  
 What's less commonly realized is just how much money poor people spend on lottery tickets. 
  
 According to a 2008 study, reported by PBS, households that earn less than $13,000 a year spend a staggering 9% of their income on lottery tickets. (via Scott Heiferman). 
  
 That's 9% of an income that is presumably extraordinarily hard to live on to begin with. 
  
 Rich, educated people tend to ridicule lottery players because the odds against winning are so astronomical. 
  
 As PBS points out, you are 17-times more likely to get hit by falling airplane parts than you are to win the lottery. 
  
 And you're 50-times more likely to get hit by lightning. 
  
 But poor people keep on buying lottery tickets. 
  
 Why? 
  
 Because they're stupid? 
  
 That's the popular explanation, at least among rich non-lottery players. 
  
 But the more accurate explanation is probably that having any chance at radically improving their circumstances is probably better than having no chance. 
  
 In any event, the fact that households that earn $13,000 or less spend 9% of their incomes on lottery tickets raises a few questions. 
  
 First, are those households receiving money from the government in the form of food stamps, tax breaks, or welfare? 
  
 If so, is it really fair to spend taxpayer money on lottery tickets? Is that what the folks who support assistance to poor households expect the money to be spent on? 
  
 Second, given that lotteries are primarily used to generate revenue for states, might it not be fairer to just collect the revenue directly, as taxes? 
  
 Or have lotteries discovered a magical way to tax people--one in which even anti-tax crusaders voluntarily choose to pay huge taxes in exchange for a minuscule chance of making a killing? 
  
 Should the United States government raise ALL its tax revenue that way? 
  
 Anyway, the finding that households earning $13,000 spend 9% of their precious dollars on lottery tickets is startling. And depressing. And it's worth thinking more about whether the government should really be sponsoring lotteries. 
  
 SEE ALSO: 14 Lottery Winners Who Blew It All ||||| JEFFREY BROWN: Finally tonight, a dollar and a dream for millions of Americans. 
  
 Lotto fever, it seems, is sweeping the country. 
  
 MAN: That's it. Guys, you are all invited to my island after I win this. Thanks. 
  
 MAN: Which one is it with the most money? 
  
 WOMAN: The Mega Millions. 
  
 MAN: Give me one of those. 
  
 WOMAN: One sucker's going to win. Somebody's going to be a rich one, okay? 
  
 (LAUGHTER) 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: The biggest jackpot in history, $640 million, is at stake in tonight's Mega Millions multistate lottery -- 42 states, Washington, D.C., and the Virgin Islands participate, 85 percent of the country. 
  
 Lines swelled today with hopefuls ready to plunk down a dollar for a chance at millions. 
  
 WOMAN: One, two, three, and good luck. 
  
 WOMAN: Thank you. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: Lottery officials said one million tickets an hour sold in the 48 hours after Tuesday's drawing failed to produce a winner. 
  
 GARY GRIEF, executive director, Texas State Lottery Commission: We have people coming out that have never bought a ticket before because they see this number and they think, gee, for just a dollar, I have a chance at a half-a-billion. It's hard not to take a chance on that. 
  
 MAN: Thirty-five, 40, 45, 50. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: The chance at big money, about $350 million after taxes if the prize is taken in one lump sum, had many who wouldn't otherwise play shelling out. 
  
 ANDREA SLONE, Store Manager: Your typical customers that would normally buy like $2 worth of tickets are now spending $20 to $50 and up to -- even they're coming in with $100 sleeves. So, I mean, even the people that don't play are tempted. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: Can the president be counted among the tempted? 
  
 JAY CARNEY, White House press secretary: No, but I'm going to run out and buy one. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: As did many others elsewhere in the nation's capital who dared to dream. 
  
 JASON DAVIS, lottery player: I'm buying 30 tickets, because if I'm going to play against astronomical odds, I figure why go in just halfway? If I were to win, I would probably pay off my debts, quit my job, and give all of my staff a million dollars. 
  
 WANDA BROWN, lottery player: I'm going to help some people and buy myself a nice house and a nice oceanfront property. Hopefully, I'm just the one that will win the money. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: But what are the real chances of winning? A lousy one in 176 million. 
  
 Some more reasonable odds, by comparison, getting hit by falling airplane parts, 17 times more likely. Or being hit by lightning, that's 50 times more likely to happen than winning tonight's big money. 
  
 But there are longer odds out there, for instance, the chance of being eaten by a shark is 280 million to one. 
  
 MAN: It's slim. It's slim, but I'm going to take that chance, like anybody else. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: So, with such long odds, why do so many play? 
  
 MIT Professor Andrew Lo studies the psychology of risk. 
  
 ANDREW LO, professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology: We have an imagination, an extraordinarily refined imagination. And, as a result, we can conjure up all sorts of really interesting scenarios of what we might do with the money if we won, and how happy we would be, and so on and so forth. 
  
 And the very act of conjuring up these scenarios actually provides pleasure right now. So, in a way, what they're doing is buying the dream. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: Retailers have a stake, too. The store that sells the winning ticket could get up to $100,000, although foot traffic is the real boon. 
  
 RICK HARTMAN: Anybody that comes up so far since I have been here this morning, they come in for their coffee or whatever, they get their lottery tickets, too. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: The states that participate in the drawing also stand to benefit. If there's a winner in tonight's drawing, just over a third of that $640 million will go to the winning state in taxes. 
  
 In Georgia, for example, proceeds of the sale of tickets go to the HOPE Scholarship, which funds in-state college education for high-achieving students. 
  
 Still, it's definitely not all fun and games. In economically stressed areas, many people who have less money to play still do. Households earning under $13,000 per year spend about 9 percent of their income on lottery tickets, on average, according to a 2008 study from "The Journal of Risk and Uncertainty." 
  
 Of course, someone will win, but even that doesn't guarantee happiness. 
  
 ANDREW LO: When you win that kind of money, everybody knows that you have won that kind of money. So, all of a sudden, distant relatives, friends, people you never heard of are coming into your lives, asking for just a little bit of that money. And that creates an enormous amount of tension and ultimately unhappiness. So I think it's a mixed blessing. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: In the end, some will settle for small victories. . . 
  
 MAN: I won $9 today. 
  
 QUESTION: Back into the lottery or. . . 
  
 MAN: I'll take my cash. 
  
 JEFFREY BROWN: . . . while someone else will take about 71 million times more than that after a drawing tonight in Atlanta at 11:00 p.m. |||||