A woman in China has been slammed online after she prevented firefighters from breaking the window of her luxury car in order to rescue her trapped three-year-old son. 
  
 China's state broadcaster CCTV reported that the incident, which occurred in the city of Yiwu in Zhejiang province last Saturday (July 11), triggered an outpouring of anger on social media. 
  
 Large crowds had gathered after hearing the boy's cries of help coming from within the BMW, but were surprised to find his unperturbed mother standing outside the car. 
  
 With the boy growing visibly weaker as he clawed in vain against the car window, firefighters attempted to break the window but were stopped by the mother. 
  
 An eyewitness said the mother insisted that they wait for a locksmith to unlock the car door as she did not want to damage the car. But the firefighters ignored her and ended up smashing the window to rescue her son. 
  
 "It is very dangerous to leave kids inside the car, especially in such heat," one firefighter was quoted as saying. 
  
 "The temperature inside the car can soar in a very short time and threaten the child's life." 
  
 Netizens expressed shock and disgust at the woman's actions. 
  
 One wrote sarcastically: "Looks like the car window is her real son." ||||| BMW logos are displayed on a production line in Berlin. Reuters 
  
 This post has been updated since it was first published. See note below. 
  
 China’s Internet has lit up with debate this week after reports of a mother who left her young son alone in her BMW – then refused to smash the luxury car’s windows in order to rescue him from the heat. 
  
 The mother, who has not been named in Chinese news reports, has since denied that she opposed smashing the window and says that she tried to break it herself, to no avail. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 The incident took place last Saturday night, when firefighters in the city of Yiwu in coastal Zhejiang province received a call alerting them that a child was locked inside a BMW, according to the Zhejiang Online provincial news site. 
  
 When the firefighters arrived, they found a young boy sitting in the driver’s seat of the car, crying and prying at the glass, the report said, citing one of the rescuers. The child had already been trapped in the car for about an hour, it said, and two locksmiths were already at work trying to open the door, while a large crowd was gathered around watching. 
  
 According to Zhejiang Online, the firefighters began to negotiate with the child’s mother, who urged them to wait for the locksmiths to open the door. After several minutes they were still unsuccessful, and the crowd began to condemn the mother. Finally, the report said, the firefighters insisted on smashing the glass, saving the frightened child. 
  
 Days after the initial report, the mother told the Qianjiang Evening News that the incident had been misunderstood. In an interview published Wednesday, she said that she had tried to break the window using a stone and hammer, and then called the police after her efforts failed. She maintained that she had hoped the locksmiths could open the door as the breaking glass could frighten or injure her 17-month-old son trapped inside. 
  
 The Hangzhou-based newspaper also quoted a firefighter who defended the mother and said the confusion could have arisen because she “didn’t say anything” when he initially asked for permission to break the window. 
  
 Photos posted online by the website showed large crowds of onlookers blocking a main street as they gathered around a fire engine and the black luxury car. 
  
 On China’s Weibo microblogs – where reports of the incident had received more than 7.6 million views as of Thursday afternoon – users responded with fury to the initial report, with many arguing that the mother’s behavior was an example of values gone awry in modern China. 
  
 “It’s clear that for this mother, a car is more important than her child,” one Weibo user wrote. 
  
 “Leaving a child trapped in a car on such a hot summer day, and then refusing to smash the window? Do you really want your child to suffocate?” wrote another. 
  
 Remarked another: “If you encounter this kind of situation, the answer is simple: First smash up the parents, then smash the glass.” 
  
 After the mother’s defense, however, some users directed their rage at the media, arguing that the tale was only the latest case of a news story being blown out of proportion. 
  
 “Some journalists know that ‘Dog Bites Man’ isn’t really news, so they try to rewrite it as ‘Man Bites Dog,’” one Weibo user wrote Thursday morning. “In the end they just cause a big stir.” 
  
 China has experienced dazzling economic growth in recent years, and with it has come soul-searching over whether public values have now shifted toward the pursuit of material wealth at any cost. 
  
 Owners of glitzy cars have become a particular scourge, with 80% of respondents in a Hurun Research Institute survey last year saying that they had heard negative news reports involving drivers of luxury vehicles. 70% of the bad publicity was related to BMW owners, the survey said. 
  
 –Felicia Sonmez. Follow her on Twitter @feliciasonmez. 
  
 (Note: This post has been updated to include comments from the mother and local rescuers in news reports published Wednesday, and subsequent reactions among social media users.) 
  
 Sign up for CRT’s daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email. 
  
  
  
 For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime 
  
  
  
  ||||| Chinese drivers of BMW cars are seen as newly rich, materialistic showoffs by drivers of other luxury brands. Yet such owners consider themselves relatively discreet entrepreneurs with a positive outlook on life. 
  
 That’s just one of the findings of a survey of luxury car owners in China published Wednesday. 
  
 The survey, conducted by wealth research firm Hurun Research Institute, compared the images of eight foreign luxury brands vying for a spot in the country’s luxury car market, which is widely expected to overtake the U.S. to become the world’s biggest in the next few years. 
  
 But an anticorruption drive by the Chinese government is changing how those living the high life are perceived by a Chinese public that increasingly frowns on ostentatious displays of wealth. 
  
 According to the report, 80% of all respondents had heard negative news about luxury car owners, which in years past have included a famous 2011 incident in which one BMW owner, son of a famous military singer, attacked a couple during a road rage episode. Of the bad publicity, 70% was related to BMW owners. 
  
 The survey didn’t list similar statistics for other brands. 
  
 BMW didn’t respond to requests for comment Wednesday. 
  
 One hundred car owners for each of the eight brands were surveyed in selected cities across China between February and October. Respondents, of which three-quarters were male, had an average age of 33.5 years and average family income of just over 1 million yuan, or around $175,000. 
  
 The survey found that Audi has the most clearly defined image of all brands, with owners seen as mature, experienced government officials. For some prospective luxury car buyers this can translate into, well, kind of boring. Audi says the days of its brand being closely associated with Chinese bureaucrats have passed and that its image has undergone a transformation toward more vitality. 
  
 Of the leading three German brands that dominate China’s market, the self-image of those who drive Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz aligns very closely with how drivers of other luxury cars perceive them—namely, as successful, cultured entrepreneurs. 
  
 For what it’s worth, Mercedes drivers also had the highest income among participants. 
  
 The image of more recent entrants into China’s luxury car market is also becoming more defined. 
  
 Jaguar Land Rover’s sport-utility drivers are seen as young showoffs with new money, the survey found. Land Rover owners had the lowest level of education among survey participants. JLR said Land Rover caters to a broad range of customers in China with diverse backgrounds. 
  
 General Motor’s Cadillac drivers were seen as mature and successful (so much for that young, trendy image GM has been spending heavily to cultivate for the brand—from hiring actor Brad Pitt for advertising campaigns to hosting glamorous launch parties on Shanghai’s iconic Bund and sponsoring funky art installations.) 
  
 Infiniti drivers were seen as glitzy, glamorous movie-star types whom China Real Time reckons probably need to wait tables by day–Infiniti owners had the lowest income among those surveyed. Infiniti said it targets young-minded premium customers. 
  
 As for Volvo? Drivers of the Chinese-owned Swedish brand are seen as—yawn–highly educated, valuable members of society who are family-oriented and morally upright. 
  
 –Rose Yu and Colum Murphy 
  
 Note: This item has been updated to reflect comment from Jaguar Land Rover. 
  
 _____________________________________ 
  
 Also popular on China Real Time now: 
  
 China’s Over-Reliance on Guaranteed Loans, in 3 Charts 
  
 As China Cracks Down on Illegal Videos, Lovers of Foreign TV Mourn |||||