Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| DES MOINES — President Obama returned Wednesday to Iowa, the state that put him on the presidential map, this time fighting to keep his Democratic Party in power and confronting skeptical voters who challenged him on policies from tax cuts to health care. 
  
 Continuing his tour of American backyards, Mr. Obama received a reception that was polite and friendly, but also pointed, when he visited Sandy Clubb, the athletic director at Drake University, and her husband, Jeff, a middle school social studies teacher, in the upscale, leafy Beaverdale neighborhood here. 
  
 About 70 people awaited him in the backyard, where Mr. Obama got an earful. One woman told him that her 24-year-old son had “campaigned furiously for you and was very inspired by your message of hope,” but is now out of college and struggling to find a job. 
  
 Another said she had “great concerns about your health care bill.” A priest told of an unemployed parishioner. A small-business owner expressed irritation with the president’s plan to raise taxes for people earning more than $250,000, to which Mr. Obama, showing his own flash of own irritation, replied: “Your taxes haven’t gone up in this administration.” 
  
 The questions were so downbeat that at the end of the hour-long session, Mr. Obama tried to pick up the mood. 
  
 “As I listen to the questions,” he said, “it’s a good reminder we’ve got a long way to go, but I do want everyone to be encouraged about our future.” 
  
 With just five weeks to go before Election Day, Mr. Obama is trying to gin up enthusiasm among beleaguered Democrats and reconnect with American voters who are deeply concerned about his stewardship of the economy, all the while drawing sharp contrasts between Democrats and Republicans. 
  
 He arrived here Tuesday night, after a raucous get-out-the-vote rally on the campus of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and promptly dropped in on his favorite Des Moines haunt, the Baby Boomers Cafe, to visit privately with friends and supporters. (The cafe bakes a chocolate chunk cookie that became a favorite of the president during his campaign; locals call it the “Obama Cookie.”) 
  
 Mr. Obama carried Iowa with 54 percent of the vote in 2008. But a poll in The Des Moines Register this week found that 55 percent of likely voters in Iowa disapproved of the president’s performance — numbers that are not much different from elsewhere in the country. 
  
 Wednesday morning’s question-and-answer session at the Clubb home was the fifth in a series of “backyard conversations” Mr. Obama has been holding. Each has had a theme: health care in Falls Church, Va., last week; education in Albuquerque on Tuesday; the middle class Wednesday morning in Des Moines. In each, Mr. Obama took on Republicans, who last week released their Pledge to America agenda. 
  
 Mr. Obama has been using the backyard events to draw a contrast between the two parties, and has been accusing Republicans of proposing $700 billion in tax cuts for the rich without offering specifics on how to pay for them. In Des Moines on Wednesday, he told voters that the Republican lawmakers “didn’t really speak honestly to the American people about how we’re going to get this country on track.” 
  
 Later in the day, Mr. Obama took that message to Richmond, Va., straight to the home district of one of his chief Republican detractors, Representative Eric Cantor, the House Republican whip, for another backyard conversation. But this one was moved to a local recreation center to escape the rain. |||||