(CNN) At one of Nevada's infamous legal brothels, a 20-year-old woman recently signed up for work -- but not to have sex. 
  
 Instead, Katherine Stone, who dreams of one day becoming a lawyer, planned to sell something other women working at the bordello couldn't offer: Her virginity. 
  
 Like the brothels themselves, Stone's choice has been controversial, particularly for those who believe a woman's virginity should only be shared for love. 
  
 But in Stone's eyes, that's exactly what she's doing. 
  
 'I love my family' 
  
 In 2014, Stone's family home in Seattle, Washington, was destroyed by a fire. Without insurance, Stone and her family found themselves forced to remain in the scorched property. 
  
 Then came the day when she noticed an ad on Facebook, and "I found out all about the brothels and the money," Stone says. "It made me think, 'Wow, it's a chance at fixing all that I need to fix.'" 
  
 JUST WATCHED Legal brothel owner: I don't have to recruit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Legal brothel owner: I don't have to recruit 01:29 
  
 While prostitution is practiced across the United States, Nevada is the only state where it's a legal activity. Any Nevada county with a population below 700,000 can host a brothel and, as of 2015, there were 19 brothels operating in the state. 
  
 Brothel tycoon Dennis Hof owns seven of Nevada's legal bordellos, and that's who Stone turned to last year for help. 
  
 Hof -- who says he receives two to three similar requests a week -- agreed to sell Stone's one-time service with the understanding that he'll take a 50% cut from the profits of the final bid. 
  
 In an effort to salvage her family's damaged home, Stone packed her bags and left home for the first time to live at one of Hof's brothels. 
  
 "People say you are suppose to do it for love," Stone says of the cultural ideals around losing one's virginity. "But if you think about it, I am doing it because I love my family." 
  
 'I obviously value myself' 
  
 Like the brothels themselves, Stone's decision has been controversial. "I read an article about myself online that made me cry," Stone recalls. "It was a Christian lady; she said I had no self-respect, which I disagree with completely. I mean, I obviously value myself." 
  
 At the moment, Stone says, her virginity bid is a little over $400,000 -- and she's still waiting to accept an offer. 
  
 "I'm waiting for a man who I feel a connection with so that the experience can be special for both of us," she says. "It's really not just about the money." 
  
 While she waits, Stone is still "contracted by Dennis Hof to legally provide services to gentlemen who are seeking experiences" other than intercourse, she says. "I have done small simple parties. Massage parties, stuff that has been very PG-13. My first experience I had here was the scariest one. It was all really new." 
  
 JUST WATCHED How much I really earn as a legal prostitute Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How much I really earn as a legal prostitute 01:07 
  
 Even after her virginity is auctioned, Stone says she has no intentions of leaving the ranch. "I anticipate to continue working at the ranch for the next five years," she says. "I plan to go to law school in the future." 
  
 'I have the right to choose' 
  
 Hof himself has been heavily criticized, with some lambasting him for exploiting women in need. The businessman and reality TV personality employs over 500 women at his ranches in Nevada, with roughly 30 working every weeknight at the famous Moonlite Bunny Ranch. 
  
 As for Stone's contract, "it's controversial; there is not any question about that," Hof says. But, he continues, "It is her choice. I don't think it is a good idea for a girl to drink six tequilas and lose her virginity on the bathroom floor in a frat house ... If she wants to (sell) it, I think that's great." 
  
 If that sounds like something a pimp would say, Hof wouldn't disagree. "In the strictest sense, I am a pimp," he says. "I am a guy that brings customers to a girl. The difference is I have a license to do this." 
  
 Stone would argue she has the same. 
  
 "I have the right to choose what I do with my body," she says. "And in this troubling economy, do you blame me?" ||||| After a devastating fire claimed her home, a young Washington woman has made an important decision many have viewed as extremely controversial. 
  
 20-year-old Katherine Stone has decided to auction off her virginity for the sake of her family. 
  
 Stone’s family home in Seattle was destroyed in a fire in 2014. They had no insurance so due to financial complications, they were forced to stay on the burned out property. 
  
 Later, Stone came across a Facebook ad for a legal brothel in Nevada. Prostitution is legal in some counties in the state. 
  
 Stone turned to Dennis Hof, who owns at least seven brothels in Nevada, each one of them legal. 
  
 “I talked to my people and I talked to her and she convinced me that this is something she wanted to do,” Hof told InsideEdition.com. 
  
 With support from her mother, Stone said goodbye to her old home and made her way to one of Hof’s brothels, where she now lives. 
  
 “I was definitely scared throughout the whole thing,” Stone told InsideEdition.com. “I was intimidated because I was brand new to the sex industry.” 
  
 Despite her fears, she said all of the ladies who work at Hof’s brothel are supportive. 
  
 “It’s just a good environment; we have fun here,” she said. 
  
 The current bid for Stone's virginity has reached $400,000, but no offers have been accepted just yet. 
  
 According to Hof, she is looking for Mr. Right. 
  
 “She hasn’t found the right situation,” said Hof. “She’s had guys that she’s liked that didn’t have enough money and she’s had guys that had enough but she didn’t like them.” 
  
 Hof said due to Stone’s situation, he won't accept any of the profits. 
  
 Stone said she’s waiting for someone to make her feel comfortable with what she’s doing and, while there have been negative criticisms online, Stone won't let it affect her. 
  
 “The whole time I’ve been here, I’ve come to terms with what I’m doing,” she said. “I’m definitely ready." 
  
 Copyright (c) 2016 CBS Studios Inc. All Rights Reserved. |||||