CANBERRA, Australia (AP) — A large shark was killed off the west Australian coast on Sunday, the first under a contentious new state government culling policy aimed at curbing fatal shark attacks. 
  
 The Western Australia government on Saturday began placing baited hooks on drum lines off popular beaches in the state capital Perth and to the south to kill white, bull and tiger sharks over three meters (10 feet) long. 
  
 The policy is a response to seven fatal shark attacks in Australia's southwest in three years. 
  
 Government spokesman Simon Beaumont said the first shark was killed by a government-contracted commercial fisherman on Sunday morning off Castle Rock near the town of Dunsborough, 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of Perth. 
  
 The shark was longer than three meters (10 feet) and was one of the three targeted species. Beaumont would not say which of the three species it was. 
  
 Once the fisherman had confirmed with fishing authorities that the shark was the required species and size, he shot it and dumped the carcass at sea, Beaumont said. 
  
 The policy has divided the community since it was announced several weeks ago and led to thousands of people demonstrating on Perth beaches against the shark cull. 
  
 Activists have threatened to sabotage the drum lines and threatened one fisherman who had accepted a government contract to catch sharks off Perth. He pulled out, citing the threats. 
  
 The federal government last week gave state authorities a special exemption from environmental laws to kill white sharks, a protected species. 
  
 Environmentalists argue that there is no evidence that the cull will reduce shark attacks. They argue it could even increase the shark danger by giving water users a false sense of security. 
  
 "To think that we're wasting this opportunity to tag and to find out more about these creatures, that we're just going to slaughter them and dump them — it's just such a waste of life," Rae Threnoworth, member of marine conservation group Sea Shepherd, told Ten Network television. 
  
 State Premier Colin Barnett was heckled by members of the public over the shark's death as he officiated at a citizenship ceremony in Perth on Sunday. 
  
 "I get no pleasure out of seeing sharks killed," Barnett told reporters. "But I have an overriding responsibility to protect the people of Western Australia. That's what I'm doing." ||||| The first shark is caught under the drum line policy. Pictures: Sharon Smith/The West Australian 
  
 Premier Colin Barnett says he gets no pleasure at seeing sharks killed but his responsibility as Premier was the safety of beachgoers. 
  
 Speaking today after the first shark was caught and kill under the State Government's drum line policy, Mr Barnett said he was pleased the shark mitigation plan was underway and that it would reduce the risk to beachgoers. 
  
 The shark, which appeared to be a 3m tiger shark, was pulled from the water shortly after 7am on a drum-line off Meelup Beach near Dunsborough. 
  
 It was shot in the head up to four times at close range. 
  
 Yesterday afternoon, amid pressure from the Government for the policy to come into force in time for the Australia Day long weekend, several lines were set either side of Dunsborough. 
  
 Despite fierce opposition and repeated claims of "direct action", environmental activists have not intervened. 
  
 The shark has been dumped off Cape Naturaliste. 
  
 The first of the baited hooks was set around Old Dunsborough beach at 2.25pm yesterday. 
  
 Mr Barnett said he was not surprised how quickly a shark was caught under the new shark mitigation plan. 
  
 “There are a lot of sharks down there,” he said. 
  
 “Anecdotal evidence is sufficiently strong that there has been a significant increase in the shark population and even more aggressive behaviour by sharks. 
  
 “Until we can provide that protection and safety, the program will continue on." 
  
 Mr Barnett was heckled at a citizenship ceremony this morning where a person in the crowd yelled that "what you're doing with the sharks is wrong". 
  
 He appeared undeterred by recent protests about the shark policy. 
  
 “I respect and acknowledge and people have different points of view and there are protestors, but my responsibility as Premier is the safety of beachgoers,” he said. 
  
 “I get no pleasure at seeing sharks killed but I have an overriding responsibility to protect the people of Western Australia and that’s what I’m doing.” 
  
 “When you have sharks of three, four, five metres long of known aggressive varieties, swimming in the water very close to beachgoers, that is imminent danger and reluctantly I have had to take that decision.” 
  
 Under the policy, baited drum lines are to be set 1km off the coast in Perth and the South West to catch great white, tiger and bull sharks bigger than 3m in length. 
  
 The first shark caught is strapped to the boat and will be towed out to sea and dumped. Picture: Sharon Smith/The West Australian 
  
 Sea Shepherd's Jeff Hansen said the shark was “believed to be a beautiful tiger shark” more than three metres long. 
  
 The fisherman contracted to catch and kill in the South West will also lay the lines at beaches in Meelup, Castle Rock and Gracetown. 
  
 Earlier yesterday, a document appeared on the Department of Transport website implying metropolitan drum lines would also be in place by Monday. 
  
 It's my duty to protect beachgoers: Barnett | Drum lines 'keep State safe' | FULL COVERAGE 
  
 Picture: Sharon Smith 
  
 "Mariners are advised that a number of Government of Western Australia shark drum lines have been deployed within 1km offshore of the following metropolitan and regional areas and will remain in place until April 30,” it said. 
  
 The notice, due to be published in The West Australian on Monday, has since been changed. 
  
 A spokesman acknowledged the error and said the wording had been corrected to include the words “will soon be deployed in the metropolitan region”. 
  
 "The fact remains, baited drum lines will be placed at popular metropolitan beaches as soon as possible, and mariners need to be advised there are exclusion zones around these deployments,” he said. 
  
 Picture: Rob Scott/7 News 
  
 Labor spokeswoman Sue Ellery said it was another example of the Government botching the implementation of the policy. 
  
 “All they have done today is confuse mariners with the notice on the Department of Transport website,” she said. 
  
 “If the lines are eventually ever actually dropped in the metropolitan area, how will metro boat users know which notice to believe?” 
  
 Conservationists are reportedly in Dunsborough today and are preparing to free any animals that are caught by the drum lines. 
  
 It is believed about 20 people from conservation group Animal Rescue Team are in the area with scuba diving equipment and an inflatable boat. 
  
 The Government yesterday announced the shark barrier designed to protect beachgoers at Old Dunsborough beach had been completed. 
  
 The $165,000 barrier, based on those used on the Gold Coast to prevent bull shark attacks, has been built as part of the City of Busselton’s beach enclosure trial. 
  
 The enclosure has six metal piles drilled into the seabed supporting a 100m x 300m mesh barrier. |||||