Reid gave Argyle the lead when he turned in Bobby Reid's scuffed shot, before Arron Davies headed the Grecians level on the stroke of half-time.
Reuben Reid's penalty put his side back in front, after Matt Oakley fouled Lewis Alessandra in the box.
Despite Argyle having Olly Lee sent off for a bad tackle on Tom Nichols, Reuben Reid bundled home his side's third.
John Sheridan's side have now won their last four games, while Exeter are winless in six.
Match ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3.
Second Half ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3.
Hand ball by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt saved. Alex Nicholls (Exeter City) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Foul by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle).
Matt Oakley (Exeter City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Corner,  Exeter City. Conceded by Tareiq Holmes-Dennis.
Foul by Ryan Brunt (Plymouth Argyle).
Matt Oakley (Exeter City) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Dominic Blizzard replaces Bobby Reid.
Attempt missed. Alex Nicholls (Exeter City) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Substitution, Exeter City. Alex Nicholls replaces Scott Bennett.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Ryan Brunt replaces Reuben Reid.
Goal!  Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 3. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from very close range to the centre of the goal.
Substitution, Exeter City. David Wheeler replaces Clinton Morrison.
Tareiq Holmes-Dennis (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Liam Sercombe (Exeter City).
Attempt missed. Tom Nichols (Exeter City) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Lee Cox replaces Lewis Alessandra.
Anthony O'Connor (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card.
Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card.
Jamie McAllister (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card.
Jordan Moore-Taylor (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card.
Olly Lee (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the red card for fighting.
Goal!  Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 2. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the top left corner.
Penalty conceded by Matt Oakley (Exeter City) after a foul in the penalty area.
Penalty Plymouth Argyle. Lewis Alessandra draws a foul in the penalty area.
Corner,  Plymouth Argyle. Conceded by Jordan Moore-Taylor.
Christian Ribeiro (Exeter City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Tareiq Holmes-Dennis (Plymouth Argyle).
Second Half begins Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1.
Substitution, Exeter City. Jamie McAllister replaces Craig Woodman because of an injury.
First Half ends, Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1.
Attempt blocked. Liam Sercombe (Exeter City) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Clinton Morrison (Exeter City) is shown the yellow card.
Goal!  Exeter City 1, Plymouth Argyle 1. Arron Davies (Exeter City) right footed shot from very close range to the high centre of the goal.
Attempt missed. Reuben Reid (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt missed. Peter Hartley (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Corner,  Plymouth Argyle. Conceded by Christy Pym.
Attempt saved. Lewis Alessandra (Plymouth Argyle) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top right corner.