Amid a long-running territorial dispute between China and Japan over a small group of uninhabited islands, the Chinese Communist Party’s main propaganda organ is questioning Tokyo’s historical claim on another piece of land long important to U.S. defense strategy: Okinawa. 
  
 The People’s Daily newspaper on page nine of Wednesday’s edition ran a lengthy and winding commentary by scholars at a prominent state-run think tank that called for a “reconsideration” of the historical status of Japan’s southernmost Ryukyu island chain, which includes Okinawa. The researchers argued foreign aggression toward China during its final Qing dynasty (1644-1911) weakened it to the point where it couldn’t sufficiently oppose aggressive Japanese inroads in the broader region. 
  
 CIA World Factbook A map shows the location of the Ryukyu Islands in the East China Sea. 
  
 “History’s unresolved questions relating to the Ryukyu have reached a time for reconsideration,” the commentary read. 
  
 The People’s Daily is widely viewed as the most influential of China’s party-backed newspapers, and is seen as a useful gauge of the leadership’s sentiments on many domestic and international issues when read over extended periods of time. 
  
 Nonetheless, individual commentaries don’t necessarily reflect the views of top political leaders, and Beijing officials on Wednesday gave little indication that the commentary represents a potential shift in policy. A spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry wouldn’t say at a daily briefing on Wednesday whether China’s government believes Japan has legitimate sovereignty over the Ryukyu islands. 
  
 The Japanese government dismissed the commentary. “There’s no doubt that [Okinawa] belongs to Japan historically and internationally,” said Japanese government spokesman Yoshihide Suga, describing the views expressed in the commentary as “completely out of the question.” 
  
 Still, the People’s Daily commentary comes at a sensitive time. Japan and China have been locked in a period of elevated tensions since last year over sovereignty of uninhabited islands west of Japan that are called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. The long-running territorial dispute was reignited after Japan’s government decided to purchase the islands from private owners in September 2012. 
  
 China viewed the Japanese government’s move as a direct challenge to its territorial claims, and subsequent harsh rhetoric from the Japanese stoked widespread anti-Japanese sentiment, which led to massive demonstrations and riots in some Chinese cities. 
  
 The paper — which focused mostly on the issue of the Senkaku islands — stopped short of calling Okinawa a part of China. “Our so-called ‘reconsideration’ is absolutely not saying the Ryukus belong to China or the Ryukus should belong to China,” said Li Guoqiang, one of the authors of the commentary, in an interview on Wednesday. 
  
 Reuters The U.S. Marine Corps Air Station Futenma in Ginowan on Okinawa. 
  
 Mr. Li, a researcher at the state-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said the ongoing territorial dispute prompted his commentary. “We’re pointing out the facts, telling the Japanese government that if there are questions about the Ryukyus, then they can’t even begin to talk about the Diaoyus,” he said. 
  
 Following World War II, Okinawa emerged as a key base of U.S. military operations in the Asia-Pacific region, and it is a cornerstone of the longstanding U.S.-Japan security alliance. But the U.S. military has long faced local resistance from those who feel the island has shouldered too much of the burden for the U.S. presence in Japan. The U.S. and Japan have recently stressed the island’s defensive role to local residents, citing rising tensions with China and North Korea and the role it has long played in U.S. regional defense strategy. 
  
 The islands were an independent kingdom for part of their history and a vassal state of both China and Japan during the 19th century, though Japanese and Chinese historians bicker over the details. They were formally annexed by Japan in the late 19th century. 
  
 Wednesday’s commentary went too far for some in the Chinese public, who mocked it on the popular Sina Weibo microblogging service. 
  
 “Everything under heaven belongs to us,” went one response. 
  
 “Are we as unhinged as North Korea? Why don’t we take back Mongolia while we’re at it?” went another. 
  
 – Brian Spegele, with contributions from Olivia Geng, Josh Chin and Toko Sekiguchi ||||| China's top newspaper on Wednesday published a call for a review of Japan's sovereignty over the island of Okinawa -- home to major US bases -- with the Asian powers already embroiled in a territorial row. 
  
 The lengthy article in the People's Daily, China's most-circulated newspaper and the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist party, argued that the country may have rights to the Ryukyu chain, which includes Okinawa. 
  
 The island is home to major US air force and marine bases as well as 1.3 million people, who are considered more closely related to Japan in ethnic and linguistic terms than to China. 
  
 The authors of the article, two scholars at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, considered China's top state-run think-tank, said the Ryukyus were a "vassal state" of China before Japan annexed the islands in the late 1800s. 
  
 "Unresolved problems relating to the Ryukyu Islands have reached the time for reconsideration," wrote Zhang Haipeng and Li Guoqiang, citing post-World War II declarations that required Japan to return Chinese territory. 
  
 The article also repeated Chinese government arguments for China's historical claims over a set of tiny uninhabited islets in the East China Sea known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. 
  
 The two nations have stepped up a war of words over the dispute in recent months, with Beijing's vessels regularly entering the waters around the Tokyo-controlled islands, stoking fears of armed conflict. 
  
 Questions over Japan's right to Okinawa were probably aimed at raising the stakes in the East China Sea dispute, said Willy Lam, an expert on Chinese politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
  
 "I think this is psychological warfare," he said, adding: "The major point is to put pressure on Japan so that the Japanese administration will be forced to make concessions over the Senkaku islands." 
  
 Okinawa is the biggest of the Ryukyu islands, which stretch for about 1,000 kilometres (600 miles) from Japan's mainland, and were the centre of the Ryukyuan kingdom that paid tribute to Chinese emperors until it was absorbed by Japan in 1879. 
  
 But some Chinese see historical ties as a basis for sovereignty and dismiss Japan's possession of the islands as a legacy of its aggressive expansionism that ended in defeat at the end of World War II. 
  
 China's government does not make such claims, but state media have from time to time carried articles and commentaries questioning Japan's authority. 
  
 China is also in dispute with southeast Asian neighbours over huge swathes of the South China Sea, which it claims based on a map published in the 1940s. 
  
 Analysts have said that Beijing is growing increasingly assertive in pressing its territorial claims, while nations across Asia have invested massively in upgrading their naval capacity. ||||| China should 'reconsider' who owns Okinawa: academics 
  
 By Tom Hancock (AFP) – May 8, 2013 
  
 BEIJING — China's top newspaper on Wednesday published a call for a review of Japan's sovereignty over the island of Okinawa -- home to major US bases -- with the Asian powers already embroiled in a territorial row. 
  
 The lengthy article in the People's Daily, China's most-circulated newspaper and the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist party, argued that the country may have rights to the Ryukyu chain, which includes Okinawa. 
  
 The island is home to major US air force and marine bases as well as 1.3 million people, nearly all of whom are Japanese nationals and speak Japanese. 
  
 The authors of the article, two scholars at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, considered China's top state-run think-tank, said the Ryukyus were a "vassal state" of China before Japan annexed the islands in the late 1800s. 
  
 "Unresolved problems relating to the Ryukyu Islands have reached the time for reconsideration," wrote Zhang Haipeng and Li Guoqiang, citing post-World War II declarations that required Japan to return Chinese territory. 
  
 The article also repeated Chinese government arguments for China's historical claims over a set of tiny uninhabited islets in the East China Sea known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. 
  
 The two nations have stepped up a war of words in recent months, with Beijing's vessels regularly entering the waters around the Tokyo-controlled islands, stoking fears of armed conflict. 
  
 In Tokyo, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga dismissed the article as "injudicious". 
  
 "They are unmistakably part of our country's territory. That is a fact accepted historically and by the international community," he said. 
  
 Questions over Japan's right to Okinawa were probably aimed at raising the stakes in the East China Sea dispute, said Willy Lam, an expert on Chinese politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. 
  
 "I think this is psychological warfare," he said. 
  
 "The major point is to put pressure on Japan so that the Japanese administration will be forced to make concessions over the Senkaku islands." 
  
 Chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying repeatedly refused to give a direct answer when asked whether Beijing considers the Ryukyu chain a part of Japan at a regular press briefing on Wednesday. 
  
 "Academics have long paid attention to the history of Okinawa and Ryukyus... but the Diaoyu islands are China's inherent territory, and have never been part of the Ryukyus or Okinawa," she said. 
  
 Okinawa is the biggest of the Ryukyu islands, which stretch for about 1,000 kilometres (600 miles) from Japan's mainland, and was the centre of the Ryukyuan kingdom that paid tribute to Chinese emperors until it was absorbed by Japan in 1879. 
  
 But some Chinese see historical ties as a basis for sovereignty and dismiss Japan's possession of the islands as a legacy of its aggressive expansionism that ended in defeat at the end of World War II. 
  
 China's government does not make such claims, but state media have from time to time carried articles and commentaries questioning Japan's authority. 
  
 China is also in dispute with southeast Asian neighbours over huge swathes of the South China Sea, which it claims based on a map published in the 1940s. 
  
 Analysts have said that Beijing is growing increasingly assertive in pressing its territorial claims, while nations across Asia have invested massively in upgrading their naval capacity. 
  
 Copyright © 2013 AFP. All rights reserved. More » |||||