Wordsworth - who was making his first start of the season after recovering from a hamstring injury - slotted home 16 minutes from time after Phil Edwards had been adjudged to have handled Ben Coker's left-wing cross.
Southend had earlier gone in front after 13 minutes when midfielder Ryan Leonard marked his 200th appearance for the Shrimpers by firing a stunning 25-yard volley into the right-hand side of the net.
Oxford drew back level just before the break when Kane Hemmings headed home Marvin Johnson's short corner.
But the Shrimpers hit back to continue their remarkable recent record against Oxford.
Phil Brown's side have now been beaten just once against the U's in the last 15 meetings between the two clubs and their victory could have been more comprehensive had Simon Eastwood not denied Adam Barrett in the closing stages.
However, Shrimpers shot-stopper Mark Oxley also did superbly well to deny Wes Thomas right at the death.
Report supplied by Press Association.
Match ends, Southend United 2, Oxford United 1.
Second Half ends, Southend United 2, Oxford United 1.
Philip Edwards (Oxford United) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by David Mooney (Southend United).
Mark Oxley (Southend United) is shown the yellow card.
Foul by Chris Maguire (Oxford United).
Ben Coker (Southend United) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Joe Rothwell (Oxford United) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Ryan Inniss (Southend United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Wes Thomas (Oxford United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ryan Inniss (Southend United).
Marvin Johnson (Oxford United) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Jason Demetriou (Southend United).
Corner,  Southend United. Conceded by Simon Eastwood.
Attempt saved. Jason Demetriou (Southend United) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner.
Attempt blocked. Chris Maguire (Oxford United) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.
Corner,  Oxford United. Conceded by Luke O'Neill.
Attempt saved. Cheyenne Dunkley (Oxford United) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Chris Maguire (Oxford United) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Ryan Leonard (Southend United).
Luke O'Neill (Southend United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Cheyenne Dunkley (Oxford United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Luke O'Neill (Southend United).
Corner,  Southend United. Conceded by Simon Eastwood.
Attempt saved. Adam Barrett (Southend United) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Charlie Raglan (Oxford United) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Charlie Raglan (Oxford United).
David Mooney (Southend United) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Substitution, Southend United. Will Atkinson replaces Anthony Wordsworth.
Substitution, Oxford United. Ryan Taylor replaces Joe Skarz.
Foul by Joe Skarz (Oxford United).
Anthony Wordsworth (Southend United) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Attempt missed. Chris Maguire (Oxford United) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Charlie Raglan (Oxford United) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by David Mooney (Southend United).
Substitution, Oxford United. Wes Thomas replaces Kane Hemmings.
Goal!  Southend United 2, Oxford United 1. Anthony Wordsworth (Southend United) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the bottom left corner.
Penalty conceded by Philip Edwards (Oxford United) with a hand ball in the penalty area.
Liam Sercombe (Oxford United) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Luke O'Neill (Southend United).