We’re just days from Black Friday, one of the biggest consumer shopping days of the year in America. And as people think generously about family and friends, we also want to help our customers show love to the planet, which badly needs a gift or two (and still gets coal every year). 
  
 This year Patagonia will donate 100 percent of global Black Friday sales in our stores and on our website to grassroots organizations working in local communities to protect our air, water and soil for future generations. These are small groups, often underfunded and under the radar, who work on the front lines. The support we can give is more important now than ever. 
  
 We’ll also provide information in our stores and on our website about how to get in touch with these groups and easily be active in your own communities—on Black Friday and every day. 
  
 For decades, Patagonia has demonstrated that caring for our planet is not in conflict with running a successful business. We are always looking for ways to further reduce our manufacturing footprint, including our company’s reliance on fossil fuels. We also fund grassroots environmental organizations by giving away 1 percent of our sales. To date that amount totals $74 million. 
  
 But during a difficult and divisive time, we felt it was important to go further and connect more of our customers, who love wild places, with those who are fighting tirelessly to protect them. This we know: If we don’t act boldly, severe changes in climate, water and air pollution, extinction of species and erosion of topsoil are certain outcomes. The threats facing our planet affect people of every political stripe, of every demographic, in every part of the country. We all stand to benefit from a healthy environment—and our children and grandchildren do, too. 
  
 By getting active in communities, we can effect local change to protect the food our children and we eat, the water we drink, the air we breathe and the treasured places we love the most. And we can impact global priorities, too, by raising our voices to defend policies and regulations that will reduce carbon emissions, build a modern energy economy based on investment in renewables and, most crucially, ensure the United States remains fully committed to the vital goals set forth in the Paris Climate Agreement. 
  
 At Patagonia, we will grow and deepen our resolve to protect what we love. We will fight harder and smarter, and use every means at our disposal to prevail for the sake of the country, the planet, and the wild places and creatures that need our voice. 
  
 We are here and we’ll keep fighting. 100 percent on Black Friday, 1 percent every day. 
  
 NOTE: Black Friday is on November 25, 2016, whenever it occurs in your part of the world. 
  
 Click here to read a letter from U.S. CEOs reaffirming their deep commitment to addressing climate change. 
  
 1% For The Planet 
  
 If you’re a business owner, please consider becoming a member of 1% for the Planet. By contributing 1% of net annual sales to grassroots environmental groups, member companies affect real change. To learn more about 1% for the Planet, check out onepercentfortheplanet.org. 
  
 Update: We’re humbled to report the response was beyond expectations: With your help, Patagonia reached a record-breaking $10 million in sales. Read the recap from our CEO. ||||| We are a diverse network of businesses, nonprofits, and individuals with reach and power. We have done amazing work over the past decade and we have an opportunity to lead, to be fearless, and to fully embody our belief that when dollars and doers come together, we are unstoppable. Learn More ||||| Patagonia typically brings in millions of dollars in sales on Black Friday. But this year, the outdoor clothing retailer is giving away everything it makes that day. 
  
 The company announced on Monday it will donate 100% of its Black Friday sales -- estimated to be well over $2 million -- to grassroots environmental groups. The organizations fight to protect vital natural resources like water, air and soil. 
  
 The donations will come from sales at both its 80 global stores and Patagonia.com on Black Friday. 
  
 The move isn't entirely out of character for the brand. Patagonia already donates 1% of its daily global sales to environmental organizations -- which amounted to $7.1 million in its latest fiscal year. 
  
 "This was a pledge the company made in 1985," said Corley Kenna, director of global communications with Patagonia. 
  
 Related: 14 coolest toys for the holidays 
  
 But the latest commitment tied to Black Friday was inspired by current events. 
  
 "We definitely came up with the idea after the election," said Lisa Pike Sheehy, vice president of environmental activism at Patagonia. "This is a difficult and divisive time for our country. I believe the environment is something we can all come together on. ... Environmental values are something we all embrace." 
  
 Related: Black Friday 2016: What time do stores open? 
  
 Kenna said the donation would go to a large network of nearly 800 organizations in the U.S. and around the world. 
  
 "The threats facing our planet affect people of every political stripe, of every demographic, in every part of the country," Patagonia CEO Rose Marcario, wrote in a company blogpost detailing the Black Friday effort. "We all stand to benefit from a healthy environment." 
  
 --CNN's Paul Vercammen contributed to the story ||||| Patagonia plans to donate 100 percent of its sales on Black Friday, Nov. 25, to the environment. 
  
 The company will donate that money to small grassroots organizations that fight for clean water, air and soil. It will work with One Percent For The Planet, an environmental non-profit network, to get the funds to the grassroots organization. 
  
 "These are small groups, often underfunded and under the radar, who work on the front lines," noted Patagonia CEO Rose Marcario, in a post she wrote announcing the company's plans. "The support we can give is more important now than ever." 
  
 Patagonia has already committed to donating 1 percent of its sales—so far that's totaled $74 million—to the environment. But this year, "during a difficult and divisive time, we felt it was important to go further and connect more of our customers, who love wild places, with those who are fighting tirelessly to protect them," said Marcario. 
  
 She added: "This we know: If we don't act boldly, severe changes in climate, water and air pollution, extinction of species and erosion of topsoil are certain outcomes. The threats facing our planet affect people of every political stripe, of every demographic, in every part of the country. We all stand to benefit from a healthy environment—and our children and grandchildren do, too." 
  
 Earlier this month Patagonia shuttered its retail locations, headquarters and distribution centers to encourage its employees and consumers to vote for a candidate that would make a commitment to the environment. 
  
 With the latest effort Patagonia will also provide its consumers with information in its stores and on its website about how they can get involved with the environmental groups in their communities. 
  
 "The idea was generated internally as a way to demonstrate our deep commitment to environmental issues following our Vote our Planet initiative," explained a spokeswoman. 
  
 "We're just days from Black Friday, one of the biggest consumer shopping days of the year in America," said Marcario. "And as people think generously about family and friends, we also want to help our customers show love to the planet, which badly needs a gift or two (and still gets coal every year)." |||||