GO-AHEAD Towcester racecourse wants to ban the use of whips, apart from for steering, from September. 
  
 The Northamptonshire jumps track has written to the BHA proposing that the ‘hands-and-heels only’ rules currently used in some conditional jockeys’ races apply at ALL their fixtures from next autumn. 
  
 The great whip controversy was re-ignited after the Grand National when Ballabriggs’ winning jockey Jason Maguire was given a five-day ban for excessive use of the whip — without losing the race. 
  
 Charlie Brooks, former top amateur rider and trainer, is now a director at Towcester. 
  
 He told me: “We feel passionately that our plan is the way forward. Jockeys can carry whips for correction and safety but no horse should be hit behind the saddle. 
  
 “Our perception is that our racegoers do not want to see horses being whipped after they have climbed Towcester’s gruelling uphill finish.” 
  
 Former champion jockey John Francome and Sir Peter O’Sullevan are among the growing band of respected racing personalities who want to see a crackdown on the use of whips. 
  
 O’Sullevan said: “This is a very forward-looking plan. I’ve always felt the use of the whip on horses was unappealing. 
  
 “To ignore the cosmetic aspect of our sport is very dangerous and I congratulate Towcester and Charlie Brooks for their initiative. It is correct to carry a whip as an instrument for correctness but not to chastise a horse.” 
  
 John McCririck, a long-time opponent of the whip, said: “Towcester’s action is the best news racing has had for years. 
  
 “If they have just hands-and-heels races we will see who the real jockeys are and not the macho men who clobber horses the hardest. 
  
 “In 20 years people will look back and see recordings of races and will not believe horses were hit in the name of sport. 
  
 “I find the whip repulsive. No animal should be allowed to be hit. You cannot whack your dog with a stick so why should horses be any different. 
  
 “I’ve always feared one day an animal rights organisation would bring a court case against a jockey for cruelty. If more tracks support Towcester and use the same policy racing will have been seen to cure itself. 
  
 “More races are LOST by the misuse of the whip than are won by it. Lester Piggott might not have won Derbys on Roberto and The Minstrel without his whip flaying. mpu 
  
 “But when you see head-on films of races you see horses swerving away from the whip. They hate it. And I don’t agree with the six strokes-only rule. 
  
 “In big races when there is massive prize-money jockeys don’t mind belting horses half to death. They know the horse will not be disqualified and they will just get a suspension. 
  
 “There is no other sport where you can blatantly break the rules and keep the prize. If you score an offside goal, it doesn’t count. If you bowl a no-ball in cricket but take a wicket, it doesn’t count. 
  
 “The image of racing is seriously hurt when whips are used.” 
  
 I applaud Towcester and their bid to banish obvious cruelty. 
  
 Their proposal will put the BHA on the spot. Many will argue you cannot have one set of rules for one track and another for the other 59. 
  
 No Khan do for Fallon 
  
  
  
  
  
 KIEREN FALLON will miss the ride aboard Native Khan in the 2,000 Guineas — despite having his 10-day ban reduced. 
  
 The jockey was sidelined when the Kempton stewards found him guilty of not riding out to the line on April 13. 
  
 Fallon succeeded yesterday in getting his suspension downgraded to seven days but he he will still be banned from April 27 to May 3, which includes both days of Newmarket’s Guineas fixture. 
  
 He was due to ride Ed Dunlop’s Native Khan in the colts’ Classic after the pair landed an impressive victory in the Craven Stakes. 
  
 Fallon’s lawyer Rory Mac Neice said: “I’m disappointed we didn’t get the entire suspension lifted. 
  
 “But the three days they have taken off demonstrates Kieren was right to review it. It also allows him to ride at Chester, which is great.” 
  
 Dunlop believes Nat-ive Khan has taken another step forward since the Craven. 
  
 He said: “He’s in good nick. I said beforehand the Craven would do him the world of good and he has progressed a lot from it. 
  
 “One thing in his favour is that he likes fast ground, which he should get, and the likelihood there will be a pacemaker will help too.” 
  
 Native Khan is 12-1 for the 2,000 Guineas with Ladbrokes. Frankel is the 1-2 favourite. 
  
 Grand National-winning rider Jason Maguire was another rider to make a successful appeal against a ban. 
  
 His 10-day suspension for taking the wrong course at Wetherby on Sunday was quashed. Maguire took evasive action to avoid the injured Harry Haynes. 
  
 PETER TOOLE is out of intensive care as he continues to recover from his fall at Aintree on Grand National day. His condition is stable. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. |||||