We Welcome You 
  
 Our Mission 
  
 The Cash Hyde Foundation’s mission is to fight cancer with smiles, prayers, positive energy and provide information and financial support for children with cancer and their families. 
  
  
  
  
  
 What We Do 
  
 Create childhood cancer awareness in our communities. 
  
 Collect donations and organize fundraiser’s to financially assist the foundation with its projects and financial support for children with cancer and their families. 
  
 Collect donations and organize fundraiser’s to financially assist the foundation with its projects and financial support for children with cancer and their families. Help families in need organize fundraisers so they can concentrate on fighting cancer. 
  
 Purchase and donate DVD’s and CD’s to patients at Children’s Hospitals. 
  
 Donate custom made Reggae Runners (Little Tikes Cars with IV poles mounted to them) to patients at Children’s Hospitals around the country. 
  
 Raise money to purchase a trailer for families to use at Primary Children’s Hospital. 
  
 Maintain an open forum and blog on the foundations website for donors to stay informed , communicate and educate. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Cash Hyde Foundation Video 
  
 Cash Michael Hyde 
  
  
  
 2008 - 2012 
  
 When Cashy was 20 months old Radiologist’s at Community Medical Center in Missoula, MT. Discovered a 4.5 cm. Stage 4 Brain Tumor in Cashy. He was transported on Life Flight to Primary Children’s Hospital in Salt Lake City, UT. Cashy was placed on the 2nd floor NTU intensive care unit. 
  
 Cashy went into emergency open brain surgery the following day to try and remove the tumor. The surgeon’s only removed 10% of the tumor for biopsy because it had grown around his optic nerves. After the surgery Cashy lost his eyesight from the pressure of the tumor on his optic nerves. 
  
 Oncologist’s diagnosed Cashy with a Malignant and Aggressive Cancer classified as a PNET Brain Tumor. PNET’s are part of the Blue Cell Cancer group that our aggressive and have a high fatality rate. The Oncologist recommended that Cashy receive 3cycles of Chemotherapy followed by 3 cycles of High Dose Chemotherapy with Stem Cell Rescue. This protocol is aggressive and will take 6 to 8 months to complete. 
  
 We were told that we needed to do the treatment at Primary Children’s Hospital in Salt Lake City, UT and that Cashy would have to stay in the hospital for weeks at a time. We returned home to Missoula for 6 days to pack are basic belongings and prepare ourselves for the Battle of a Lifetime! 
  
  
  
 There are no words to describe watching chemotherapy take effect on someone you love. Chemotherapy kills cancer cells very aggressively unfortunately it kills healthy cells the same. If cancer has ever touched your life or the life of someone you know, I don’t have to tell you how devastating it is. 
  
 From the day Cashy’s tumor was discovered he has marveled the medical profession and defied odds countless times. Cashy is considered a Miracle to thousands of people around the world and many Doctors and Nurses. Along the way Cashy regained his vision, survived seizures, and many PICU emergencies. There were many ups and downs along the way but each day Cashy would fight with a smile earning him the title “THE BOY OF STEEL.” 
  
 Unfortunately on October-12-2011 the Hyde’s were told that Cashy’s brain tumor was back and that he must begin Proton Beam Radiation at the Loma Linda University in California. With radiation treatment Cash has a 30% chance of 5 year survival and risk of Leukemia Cancer, Blindness and severe Brain damage. 
  
 In June 2012, we drove from Missoula, MT to San Francisco, CA so Mike could speak at the High Time Cannabis Cup. We also had a booth for the foundation to spread Cashy's story and pediatric cancer awareness. It was also Cashy's fourth birthday and we had a blast going to the beach, the science museum, we drove through the Redwood forest and rode the gondola up the mountain to see some really huge trees! 
  
  
  
 While we were in San Francisco, we teamed up with United Patients Group and they donated/helped assemble and sticker 10 reggae runners to children’s hospitals in the bay area. 
  
 During our trip to San Francisco, Cashy had started throwing up and acting more tired than usual. He continued to complain about a pain in his lower abdomen, sometimes he would scream it would hurt him so bad. We had several tests done to rule out different things it could have been; radiation enteritis, tumors in his abdomen, blockage or constipation. He had CT scans done with barium enema studies, he had ultrasounds, lab tests, and all the tests came back negative. After two more weeks and his condition only worsening, we did what we feared the most and ordered an early brain MRI even though he had been cancer free at the end of May. 
  
 July 27th, 2012 Cashy’s MRI revealed a 2.7cm brain tumor in the same location as the previous two tumors. We were devastated but we’re hopeful that we would be able to save him with a natural treatment plan using cannabis oil, the Gerson Therapy and other immune boosting remedies. We had exhausted our options with chemotherapy and radiation as he had went through and received all the heavy hitter chemo drugs and the top notch radiation therapy offered. We made the decision that we wouldn’t put him through any of that ever again. No more brain scans, no more IV’s, no more Ports, no more Central Lines, Lab tests or hearing and kidney tests and most importantly “No More Pokes,” as Cashy had asked. We honored his request even though we knew what the outcome would likely be. 
  
 Cashy Fought hard for five more months, he never received one more poke, like we had promised. He never set foot in the hospital ever again. Cashy passed away November 14th, 2012 in the arms of his daddy while wearing a pair of his favorite monkey pajamas. He forever changed our family and many lives of others who have followed his amazing journey. Cashy’s legacy will live on for years and years to come. He will never be forgotten. 
  
 Fundraisers & Donations 
  
  
  
  
  
 This Battle would not have been possible without the financial support we received from the fundraisers & donations that were put together by family, friends and strangers all across Montana, and other States thanks to Cashy’s Facebook friends. We were able to leave work for 9 months and concentrate on helping Cashy fight Cancer as a Family. We were able to be at the hospital 24hrs a day and Cashy never had to be alone. We are very thankful for all that everyone has done. 
  
 Camp Cashy 
  
 Since Salt Lake City is 500 miles from our home in Missoula we brought down the family camp trailer and camped out at Primary Children’s Hospital for 9 months. We were very fortunate to have it considering some families sleep on the floor and in the waiting rooms. It was nice to get out of the hospital and take a break. We called it Camp Cashy and it was our piece of Montana in Utah. 
  
 Big Brother Colten 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Big Brother Colten is the Rock of our family and played a great role in this battle. Colten can make anyone smile and loves flirting with nurses, so I guess you could say he was in his element at Primary Children’s. Kalli and I would switch each day and one of us would take Colten and go swimming or just hang out. Colten made us keep our spirits up and stay positive. 
  
  ||||| Doctors said 2-year-old Cash Hyde would likely die after they found a stage 4 brain tumor surrounding his optic nerve just a year ago this week. 
  
 And he nearly did. After being subjected to seven different chemotherapy drugs, the little boy from Missoula, Montana suffered septic shock, a stroke and pulmonary hemorrhaging. 
  
 Cash was so sick he went 40 days without eating. His organs were threatening to shut down. His father, Mike Hyde, intervened, slipping cannabis oil into his son's feeding tube. 
  
 In Montana, medical marijuana is legal. Hyde had used it himself to treat his attention deficit disorder. When Cash was diagnosed in May 2010, Mike got him a marijuana card and purchased the drug from his own supplier. 
  
 Cash, now 3, made a miraculous recovery at Primary Children's Hospital in Salt Lake City, but his father's bold action -- taken behind doctors' backs -- has raised serious questions about a parent's role in medical treatment. 
  
 Hyde said he believes it was the marijuana oil that helped Cash eat again and that the drug -- illegal in most states, including Utah, can cure cancer. 
  
 "Not only was it helpful," Hyde, 27, told ABCNews.com. "It was a godsend." 
  
 Dr. Linda Granowetter, a professor of pediatrics at New York University and chief of the Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, told ABCNews.com that Hyde's intervention was "fascinating" but "somewhat bothersome." 
  
 Granowetter said she agrees that cannabis -- the chemical form, THC can be found in the prescription drug Marinol -- is effective in treating adult nausea that accompanies chemotherapy. But there have been no clinical trials in children. 
  
 "Its virtue is we know exactly what you are getting and how much," she said. "I think that the fact that he didn't have the rapport and ability to be honest with the doctor is very troubling. Care is impeded when there is not complete trust." 
  
 Hyde, who quit his job as a car salesman when Cash was diagnosed with cancer, said he was afraid Cash's doctor might take the marijuana away. 
  
 "When you are told your kid has cancer, whoa," said Hyde, 27. "Then they tell me they have to do aggressive chemo and he's probably not going to make it. It's a lot to take on." 
  
 He had read claims by researchers online about cannabis's properties: "It's one of the best nausea and pain medications on the market," he said. 
  
 Because there are no pediatric oncology facilities in rural Montana, where Cash's tumor was discovered in a CT scan at the local emergency room, he was rushed to Salt Lake City, the nearest treatment center. 
  
 He was given the highest possible doses of chemotherapy for two months. He lost his appetite and threw up eight to 10 times a day. 
  
 "When he started the chemo, he was so sick," said Hyde. "For the first six weeks, he was blind. But his tumor was shrinking… It's the nastiest thing to see someone you love go through this." 
  
 Doctors had inserted a gastric feeding tube to administer cancer-fighting drugs and to help with his nutrition, but when August came the family experienced another medical "rollercoaster ride," according to Hyde. 
  
 "The G-tube burned out the inside of his stomach," said Hyde. "He didn't even have the will to eat." 
  
 By September, Cash had stopped eating for 40 days. "He was suffering terribly, and the doctors said it was the best they could do for him," said Hyde, who asked doctors to stop the chemotherapy drugs. 
  
 Instead, Hyde boiled up marijuana he had purchased in Montana with olive oil and measured 3 mm. doses that he poured into his son's G-tube twice a day. 
  
 Because it was illegal to use medical marijuana in Utah, Hyde never told his doctors. 
  
 Cash Hyde Makes 'Miracle' Recovery' 
  
 "In two weeks he was weaned of all the nausea drugs, and he was eating again and sitting up in and laughing," according to Hyde, who said doctors called his son's recovery "a miracle." 
  
 NYU's Granowetter said cannabis "certainly can increase appetite and improve mood...but the idea that it can cure cancer is ludicrous." 
  
 She said the drug is most effective in teens who have previously used marijuana. "In young adults or children who have not had it before, it can make them paranoid." 
  
 "It's awfully hard to gauge if a child would have a bad reaction," according to Granowetter, who said she would welcome clinical trials on children. 
  
 "We know from research that 30 to 60 percent of parents with children are giving them alternative meds like vitamins, shark tooth and herbs from Chinatown," she said. "That's why we spend a lot of time asking parents what else they are giving kids and trying to be non-judgmental and work with them and guide them." 
  
 She said most pediatric oncologists are "open-minded" about alternative treatments. 
  
 Mike Hyde said he did eventually tell the Utah doctors, who were surprised by how Cash bounced back with no permanent organ damage. They say the boy has a 50 to 80 percent chance that the cancer will come back, according to Hyde, who has since started a foundation to help children with cancer. 
  
 "We were told I was one of the best dads," said Hyde, who lived with his wife and their other 6-year-old son in a camper in a parking lot for the nine months of treatment. "Every encounter in Salt Lake City, we were positive and never quit fighting. I was told he was going to die, but I knew he hadn't stopped the fight." 
  
 For more information on Cash and how to help other children with cancer, go to the Cash Hyde Cancer Foundation. |||||