Image caption Simon Rouen was arrested at Heathrow on his return from the Antarctic 
  
 A scientist who committed child sex offences while working at the South Pole has been jailed for three years. 
  
 Simon Rouen, 36, from Redruth in Cornwall, was arrested by Kent Police as he arrived at Heathrow Airport. 
  
 He had communicated with two undercover Kent Police officers to say he wanted to abuse an eight-year-old girl. 
  
 Rouen was convicted of arranging the facilitation of a child sex offence, as well as 10 counts of possessing indecent images of children. 
  
 The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) laboratory manager exchanged emails with officers from Kent Police's paedophile online investigation team, with the final one being sent in March 2014 from Chile as he was on his way back to England. 
  
 He was returning to the UK after finishing a six-month stint at the BAS Rothera Research Station on the Antarctic Peninsula. 
  
 Image caption Rouen spent six months at the British Antarctic Survey's Rothera base 
  
 Rouen was found guilty on all counts at his trial at Maidstone Crown Court in January. 
  
 'Very real desire' 
  
 At a sentencing hearing at Southwark Crown Court on Tuesday, Rouen was also told he would be placed on the sex offenders register indefinitely. 
  
 Det Con Jo Gordon from Kent Police said: 'Throughout the course of the emails he sent, Simon Rouen demonstrated a very real desire to sexually abuse the child when he returned to England. 
  
 "Fortunately, through our proactive investigations, we were able to identify the risk he posed to children and intercept him before any child could be abused." 
  
 A spokesman for Cambridge-based BAS said Rouen no longer worked for the organisation. ||||| A Cornish man has been found guilty of arranging a child sex offence while working at the South Pole. 
  
 Simon Rouen from Redruth, was arrested at Heathrow Airport last year as he arrived back in the UK from the South Pole. 
  
 Kent police said while Rouen was abroad the 36-year-old communicated with two undercover police officers and expressed his desire to sexually abuse an eight-year-old girl. 
  
 Data found on his computer showed that he was storing indecent images of children. 
  
 Rouen was found guilty at Southwark Crown Court in January and jailed for three years at the same court yesterday. |||||