Crystal Palace fans cause £40,000 damages to one of team's own buses 
  
 Crystal Palace's team coach was vandalised by their own fans before win over Middlesbrough - Pic credit: Jack Willis 
  
 Crystal Palace fans accidentally vandalised their own team bus before Saturday's vital 1-0 Premier League win over Middlesbrough. 
  
 The vandals caused an estimated £40,000 in damages by painting Crystal Palace FC in red, white and blue graffiti along one side of the coach. 
  
 They are believed to have thought it was Middlesbrough's team bus, when it had been loaned to the club by Palace after Aitor Karanka's squad flew down to London on Friday. 
  
 The coach was vandalised while parked at a hotel near Palace's Selhurst Park home. 
  
 Crystal Palace 1-0 Middlesbrough 
  
 A Crystal Palace spokesman told The Sun: "The team bus was covered in graffiti with the words "Crystal Palace" overnight on Friday ahead of the game on Saturday. Police have been informed." 
  
 Palace went on to claim three valuable points and move out of the bottom three thanks to a single goal from January signing Patrick van Aanholt. 
  
 New customers: Grab a NOW TV Sky Sports Month Pass for £20pm for the first 2 months and catch a blockbuster period of live Sky Sports action. No contract. ||||| Tweet with a location 
  
 You can add location information to your Tweets, such as your city or precise location, from the web and via third-party applications. You always have the option to delete your Tweet location history. Learn more ||||| Palace's defaced team bus 
  
 Crystal Palace's team coach was vandalised prior to Saturday's 1-0 win over Middlesbrough, with the club's name and colours sprayed on to it. 
  
 Contrary to speculation, the coach had not been provided for Boro to use for their visit to Selhurst Park. 
  
 The Eagles used another bus to travel to the Premier League game. 
  
 A club spokesman said: "The team bus was covered in graffiti overnight on Friday ahead of the game on Saturday. Police have been informed." |||||