Please enable Javascript to watch this video 
  
 CHESTER, Va. – Police have released the names of the suspect and victims in a triple homicide at a Chester home on Thanksgiving night. 
  
 Officers discovered two women and a man shot to death at a home on Dogwood Ridge Court in the Ashley Forrest subdivision around 11:30 p.m. 
  
 Officials said the women’s bodies were found inside the home and that the man’s body was found in the front yard. 
  
 The victims were identified as 58-year-old Jeanett L. Gattis, 30-year-old Candice L. Kunze and 36-year-old Andrew E. Buthorn. 
  
 "The victims and suspect all lived at the residence in the 14000 block of Dogwood Ridge Court and this incident appears to be domestic related," Sgt. P.H. Zoffuto with Chesterfield Police said in a news release. "Jeanett Gattis is the wife of Christopher Gattis. Buthorn is the boyfriend of Kunze, who is the daughter of Jeanett Gattis." 
  
 Police said 58-year-old Christopher Gattis was arrested at the scene without incident. 
  
 Gattis, who is being held without bond at the Chesterfield County Jail, was charged with three counts of first-degree murder and three counts of use of a firearm in the commission of a felony. 
  
 Neighbors said everyone on the block is close-knit and that many of them knew the victims and the suspect. 
  
 One neighbor said that when heard a gunshot last night, police were already on the scene by the time he came outside. He said he then saw a man's body and the suspect in handcuffs. 
  
 Neighbor Mike Brown was stunned by the tragedy and said the suspect was a friend and a gentle man. 
  
 "We were all friends. We hang out sometimes [and] cook out in the back,” neighbor Mike Brown said. "I mean every time I see them, they're always the same way. [I] had no clue that they were having problems that I knew of, but behind closed doors is behind closed doors." 
  
 Additionally, sources and neighbors said the suspect was a youth pastor at a local church. 
  
 Anyone with information that could help investigators should call the Chesterfield County Police Department at 804-748-1251 or Crime Solvers at 804-748-0660. 
  
 This is a developing story, so anyone with more information can submit a news tip here. ||||| "I have one detained; be advised he shot three people...I got one male subject on the ground. He's got two gunshots to the stomach...Sir, we have two females down in the kitchen." ||||| Three people were found slain at a house in Virginia on Thanksgiving night, authorities said, and a suspect was arrested who was described in a newspaper account as a youth pastor at a church. Police described the incident as domestic-related. 
  
 The police in Chesterfield County, Va., a suburb of Richmond, said Jeanett L. Gattis, 58, Candice L. Kunze, 30, and Andrew E. Buthorn, 36, were all found dead at a house on Dogwood Court in Chester, Va. All had been shot, police said. They said Christopher R. Gattis, 58, was arrested at the scene and charged with three counts of murder. 
  
 In a statement, the Chesterfield County police said the victims and suspect all lived at the same house. They said Jeanett Gattis was the wife of Christopher Gattis, the man who was arrested. They said Candice Kunze was the daughter of Jeanett Gattis. Buthorn was described by police as the boyfriend of Kunze. 
  
 A Facebook profile page for a Christopher Gattis listed his occupation as director of youth ministry since 2014 at the Grace Lutheran Church in Chester, Va. 
  
 Two photographs on the profile page showed a man who resembled the man shown in the booking photograph police released of the suspect. The man in both of the Facebook pictures and in the booking photograph wears a mustache and goatee. The man in the booking photo is older, however. 
  
 On the website of the Grace Lutheran Church, the following statement could be read late Friday night. 
  
 "Members of Grace Lutheran Church are deeply saddened by the loss of life Thursday night as a result of three individuals being shot in Chester and this tragedy included members of Grace Lutheran Church. 
  
 "Grace Lutheran Church has experienced many hardships over the years, but this heartbreak has unique challenges. Grace Lutheran Church asks for the prayers from the community as our congregation begins the process of addressing the grief being experienced by everyone involved." 
  
 As read Friday night, nothing on the church website made any specific reference to Gattis by name, or to any role of his at the church. Available online public records for Christopher R. Gattis say nothing about any employment at the church. 
  
 However, the Richmond Times-Dispatch newspaper described Gattis on its website as a youth pastor. 
  
 According to the Times-Dispatch, the website of Grace Lutheran had said he was the youth pastor there. ||||| Members of Grace Lutheran Church are deeply saddened by the loss of life last night as a result of three individuals being shot in Chester and this tragedy included members of Grace Lutheran Church. Grace Lutheran Church has experienced many hardships over the years, but this heartbreak has unique challenges. Grace Lutheran Church asks for the prayers from the community as our congregation begins the process of addressing the grief being experienced by everyone involved. |||||