Media caption About 100 people were rescued from their cars on flooded roads 
  
 Nine people have been killed after "unprecedented" floods swept through the US states of North and South Carolina. 
  
 South Carolina schools were shut on Monday and several motorways were closed as rain continued to fall. 
  
 One weather station in Columbia - South Carolina's capital - recorded 17 inches (43cm) in as many hours on Sunday. 
  
 The torrential rains have been made worse by a weather system connected to Hurricane Joaquin in the Caribbean. 
  
 The storm is not expected to hit the eastern US, but the moisture associated with it is contributing to heavy rainfall. 
  
 "The flooding is unprecedented and historical," said Dr Marshall Shepherd, a meteorologist and director of the atmospheric sciences program at the University of Georgia. 
  
 Many of the victims have drowned after flood waters swept over their vehicles. 
  
 South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley urged residents to stay indoors. 
  
 "The water is not safe and a lot of areas across the state where you see this deep water, it's got bacteria in it. So, stay inside and don't get in there," she said. 
  
 Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many homes in South Carolina are nearly submerged 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption The state capital, Columbia, received a record 18cm of rain in 24 hours 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Water levels on the Congaree River have risen dramatically 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Residents watch as the water inches towards their front door 
  
 Image copyright AP Image caption Some children decided to play in the floodwaters outside Conway 
  
 President Barack Obama has declared a state of emergency in South Carolina. The move means state and local authorities can receive federal help to deal with the flooding. 
  
 "We have every ambulance in the county out responding to calls. People are being moved from their homes in boats," Georgetown County spokeswoman Jackie Broach told Reuters. 
  
 About 100 people were rescued from their cars on flooded roads on Saturday night. 
  
 In the historic city centre of Charleston, many streets have been closed and sandbags have been piled up to keep floodwaters out. ||||| CLOSE As historic rain continues to pound South Carolina, people were forced to evacuate their homes. Boats helped rescue those who were stranded. 
  
 Floodwaters rise as a vehicle and a man navigate flooded streets in Florence, S.C., on Sunday. (Photo: Gerry Broome, AP) 
  
 Much of South Carolina was gripped by floodwaters early Monday, as emergency responders promised renewed door-to-door searches for anyone still trapped after days of torrential rain. 
  
 At least seven weather-related deaths have been blamed on the storm, as "historic" rainfall up to 2 feet in some areas combined with high winds to strand motorists and residents and force hundreds of evacuations and rescues. 
  
 As for the economic cost of the flooding, it should "easily surpass $1 billion given the enormity of the damage," according to an early estimate from Steve Bowen, a meteorologist with Aon Benfield, a global reinsurance firm. 
  
 "The cost to infrastructure alone could be that much, " Bowen said in an e-mail to USA TODAY. "Unfortunately, as is the case with flood events, much of the damage will not be covered by insurance since only a small percentage of homeowners in South Carolina are current National Flood Insurance Program policyholders." 
  
 The rain was forecast to continue deep into Monday in some parts of the state. Overnight curfews were in effect beginning at 6 p.m. Sunday in Columbia, Sumter and several counties. 
  
 Gov. Nikki Haley on Sunday said South Carolina's first responders were battling flooding from rains that can be expected once in 1,000 years. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Photos: Dangerous Flooding in the Midlands Fullscreen Post to Facebook Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Interested in this topic? You may also want to view these photo galleries: Replay Autoplay Show Thumbnails Show Captions Last SlideNext Slide 
  
 "Our goal is all hands on deck," Haley said of the emergency response. "We will get through this, but we need everyone to stay strong." 
  
 The National Weather Service's Charleston office reported "mind-boggling rain amounts." They included 24-plus inches in Mount Pleasant, a suburb of Charleston, since the storm began Thursday. Columbia recorded more than 10 inches. 
  
 President Obama approved federal disaster aid for South Carolina. 
  
 Haley said first responders received more than 750 rescue calls in a 12-hour period that started before dawn Sunday. Hundreds of road closures were reported, including a section of Interstate 95, the vital highway connecting eastern states from Maine to Florida. 
  
 CLOSE South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley says that parts of her state haven't had this much rain in 1,000 years. So far, three people have died from weather-related incidents in South Carolina. VPC 
  
 Haley said 600 National Guard personnel have been called out, with hundreds more on alert. And she warned residents not to plan on getting out until Tuesday to ease the burden on rescue personnel. 
  
 Among those rescued were a mother and her 15-month-old daughter, who were rescued from the roof of their flooded home by a Coast Guard air crew in Huger, about 25 miles north of Charleston, on Sunday. A helicopter crew from Coast Guard Air Station Savannah, Ga., evacuated the pair to Mt. Pleasant Regional Airport. 
  
 AccuWeather senior meteorologist Dan Pydynowski called the weather event the worst in the state since Hurricane Hugo, which made landfall near Charleston as a Category 4 storm in 1989, killing 27 people in the state. 
  
 "Charleston got 11.5 inches of rain on Saturday, which is a one-day record," Pydynowski said. "Today Columbia is setting records." 
  
 In Mount Pleasant, Sarah Shinners said her home was above the waterline — but the only road out of her neighborhood was impassable. 
  
 "Everything around us is completely flooded. It's terrible," Shinners told USA TODAY. "We are just hunkering down." 
  
 Much of the East Coast has been saturated by rains that have lingered since Thursday. Power was knocked out to about 50,000 residences and businesses in South Carolina and Georgia as of Sunday afternoon. 
  
 "Major to localized catastrophic flash flooding along with possible landslides and mudslides in the higher elevations of South Carolina and Georgia remain an ongoing concern," the National Weather Service warned. 
  
 Flood warnings also were issued for three Virginia counties. North Carolina also was dealing with flash flooding on some secondary roads, and some ferry services were canceled. But South Carolina was taking the brunt of the unrelenting storm. 
  
 Chris Morris is one of the lucky ones in his Charleston neighborhood. He said many neighbors have evacuated, but his family's home is on a raised slab and hasn't been breached. He lives on a golf course, but you would not know that by looking at it. 
  
 "We woke up this morning to about 10 inches of water surrounding the house," Morris told USA TODAY. "And the golf course is completely under water." 
  
 The weather service blamed a low pressure system that has stalled over the state since Thursday, combined with the outer edges of Hurricane Joaquin. The Category 2 hurricane, with sustained top winds of 105 mph, avoided a direct hit to the U.S. but did add fuel to rains and high wind along the coast. Joaquin was forecast to lash Bermuda late Sunday and Monday. 
  
 South Carolina emergency management officials counseled residents to "remain where you are if you are safely able to do so. Call 911 for life-threatening emergencies." 
  
 Mind-boggling rain amounts so far: 24+" 3NNE Boone Hall 18+" near Kiawah & Huger 16.61" CHS Airport 14.25" DT CHS http://t.co/Mh9bmBhfFm — NWS Charleston, SC (@NWSCharlestonSC) October 4, 2015 
  
 In Columbia, officials said many residents were without drinking water because of water main breaks. Greater downtown Columbia and southeast Richland County were most affected. City officials said those affected should be prepared to be without potable water from the city system for three to four days. The city issued a boil water advisory for all of its 375,000 customers. 
  
 City fire officials said several dams had breached. WLTX-TV meteorologist Jim Gandy said the Village of Sandhill had received 11 inches of rain by 6 a.m. On I-95 in Clarendon County, a 32-mile stretch of road was closed. Parts of Interstate 77 and Interstate 20 also were covered in water. 
  
 Columbia Fire Chief Aubrey Jenkins told WLTX-TV that the city has been inundated with rescue calls. 
  
 "We do need more resources," Jenkins said. "People who can't get out should call 9-1-1. Don't give up, keep trying." 
  
 Contributing: Greg Toppo, Doyle Rice, Associated Press 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1LbxpAc |||||