PC Dave Phillips, 34, died when he was hit by a pick-up truck in Wallasey, Wirral, in October.
Clayton Williams, 19, who denies murder, said he did not see the officer "because some street lights weren't working".
The prosecution accused him of lying as he gave evidence.
Read live updates on this story and more from across Merseyside.
PC Phillips and his colleague, PC Thomas Birkett, 23, had been responding to reports of a burglary before the collision.
They were attempting to stop the vehicle using a tyre-puncturing "stinger" device in Wallasey Docks Link Road North.
Prosecutor Ian Unsworth QC accused Mr Williams of trying to "weave a story" and said he was "painting a picture of someone stoned and out of control".
The defendant said: "No, I've been having panic attacks, it sticks with me what I've done, taking someone's life, it's horrible."
"I keep having dreams, panic attacks, when I think about what I've done."
The teenager repeatedly told jurors he did not see PC Phillips until "literally two seconds" before he hit him.
"He jumped up like a jack in the box," he said.
He told jurors he had wanted to "go over the stop-stick [stinger] then run" but his friend in the car shouted to "go round".
Mr Williams said "he didn't think" after he hit the officer and his friend told him "you've hit him, you've hit him."
The teenager told the court: "I just panicked and went straight on. I knew I'd hit him but I didn't know he was dead."
"I didn't intend to take his life.  I just wanted to get away from the police."
At the time of PC Phillips' death, the 19-year-old was on licence after being released from a prison term for a separate police chase in which he crashed a stolen car, the court heard.
Mr Williams earlier told the court he had been smoking cannabis since the age of six and would spend up to £100 a day on the drug.
The jury also heard he had bought drugs and smoked a "a spliff" on the day of the crash.
Mr Williams said after the collision: "I just felt sick to my stomach. I just wanted to go home. I just wanted someone from my family to cuddle up to."
A man was arrested for contempt of court after shouting from the public gallery as the teenager finished giving evidence.
Judge Mr Justice William Davis told him: "I don't know who you are but you are about to be arrested for contempt of court. Officers arrest that man."
Mr Williams has admitted a charge of burglary and aggravated vehicle taking.
He denies murder, and also denies a second count of attempting to inflict grievous bodily harm with intent in relation to PC Thomas Birkett.