Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| Daniel Mihailescu/AFP/Getty Images 
  
 French president and noted hunk Emmanuel Macron came under fire on Thursday after Le Point magazine reported that he’d spent 26,000 euros, or nearly $31,000, on makeup in his first three months in office. His makeup artist, a woman named in reports as Natacha M., has billed the executive branch once for 10,000 euros and again for 16,000 euros since Macron’s inauguration. 
  
 Macron’s constituents were not pleased to learn how much taxpayers are laying down to make the president’s already rather comely face more presentable to the public. “26000 € Macron’s makeup budget, just for complexion?” one Twitter user exclaimed. “Imagine if he had to do his eyes, mouth, blush & contour.” Another accused Macron of buying perlimpinpin powder, the French version of snake oil, implying that he isn’t getting his money’s worth. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
  
  
 The president’s office was forced to respond to the revelation, explaining that it had “called in a contractor as a matter of urgency,” forcing the president to pay more than usual. Macron will spend a “significantly reduced” sum in the future, his spokesperson promised. 
  
 Every part of this is hilarious: the outrage over how much it costs to make the president pretty; the knowledge that it could cost around $123,000 just to make a man look like he’s not wearing any makeup to begin with; the fact that the Élysée Palace had to come out in defense of its beauty-routine spending. It’s especially funny in light of the fact that Macron’s approval ratings are hovering in the mid-30s right now, in part because of his dramatic budget cuts that caused the head of the French armed forces to resign. If Macron’s even complexion weren’t worth 26,000 euros a quarter, the French government might have been able to pay the salary of another civil servant or two. ||||| French President Emmanuel Macron gestures during a press conference with his Bulgarian counterpart Rumen Radev at the Euxinograd residence outside Varna, Bulgaria, Friday, Aug. 25, 2017. Macron arrived... (Associated Press) 
  
 PARIS (AP) — President Emmanuel Macron's office has confirmed a report that the French leader spent 26,000 euros ($30,695) on makeup during his first three months in power, and says it's trying to find a cheaper alternative. 
  
 The report in Le Point news magazine prompted harsh criticism of the president from French social media users. It said the cost includes the pay of a freelance makeup artist following Macron during television appearances and trips abroad. 
  
 The president's office confirmed the amount Friday. The report comes at a bad time for Macron, with polls showing his popularity plunging in recent weeks following the announcement of budget cuts and divisive labor reform. 
  
 Le Point said Macron's makeup expenses are lower than those of predecessor Francois Hollande, who paid a full-time employee about 10,000 euros monthly. ||||| Aides to French president acknowledge bill is high but say artist had been called in as ‘matter of urgency’ 
  
 Macron keeps up appearances with €26,000 makeup bill since May 
  
 His wife Brigitte lamented her wrinkles compared with his “freshness” over the breakfast table, but Emmanuel Macron’s youthful looks come at a price: €26,000 in three months. 
  
 The French president returned to work this week after perhaps the shortest presidential holiday in modern French history to find himself under fire not only for his controversial plans to reform France’s complicated labour law, but for spending a small fortune on makeup. 
  
 Since entering the Elysée Palace in May, the 39-year-old president has settled two bills from a personal makeup artist called Natacha M; one for €10,000 and another for €16,000. 
  
 Macron needs more than makeup to be the new De Gaulle | John Lichfield Read more 
  
 After the report in Le Point, presidential aides insisted there was no cover-up and that the makeup artist had been called in as “a matter of urgency”. Future cosmetic bills would be “significantly reduced”, they insisted. 
  
 “The sum covers various services including press conferences and foreign trips where the person concerned has to travel with him,” one Elysée official told journalists. The official admitted the bill was “high … but less than his predecessor’s”. 
  
 Macron, nicknamed Jupiter after the all-powerful Roman god, is not the first French president to pay handsomely for keeping up appearances. 
  
 His predecessor, the Socialist François Hollande, was accused of “shampoo socialism” after reportedly forking out €30,000 for makeup, topped off with a monthly €9,895 bill for a personal barber to cut and dry his thinning hair, according to the satirical newspaper Le Canard Enchainé. The Elysée justified the cost by saying the hairdresser had to “get up early and fix the president’s hair every morning … and as many times during the day as necessary”. 
  
 Vanity Fair claimed Hollande’s conservative predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, spent €8,000 a month on having his face done. 
  
  
  
 In 2005, it was revealed that the British prime minister, Tony Blair, had spent more than £1,800 of taxpayers’ money on cosmetics and makeup artists in the six years since he came to power. 
  
 David Cameron’s hairstylist, Raffaele “Lino” Carbosiero, was reportedly paid £90 per cut and dry. Carbosiero was later given an MBE for “services to hairdressing” after moving the PM’s parting from the right side to the left. 
  
 On Facebook, a former employee of the British embassy in Paris claimed UK ministers and even the PM “would joke about how orange-tinted their French colleagues looked during bilateral meetings”. 
  
 They would say “French politicians all look like film stars … where is the stress and the fatigue?” he wrote. 
  
  
  
 Sacré bleu – or orange – as the French don’t say. 
  
  |||||