About 1030pm Saturday night, my brother Benjamin , his wife Ingrid and their son Lennox were headed to their home in California. Benjamin was driving, they were a block from their home. A guy driving an extended cab truck came flying around the corner, wheels squealing and slammed into them. They went through a guardrail and stopped facing the opposite direction. The truck smashed into the driver's side, more fully on the rear passenger door. Unfortunately, this is where Lennox sat in his car seat. All the air bags deployed (side and front). Benjamin and Ingrid sustained minimal injuries. 
  
 Lennox sustained an open skull fracture with the location being slightly above his left eye. He had initial surgery to repair the outside wound over the left eyebrow area, which took about 6 stitches. He later had another surgery which involved opening the scalp at the hairline, peeling it off the skull to expose the damage, irrigating the area (which flushed out some small piece of bone but no debris. ) Then they positioned the depressed bone and stitched him back up. At this time he is awake. 
  
 The guy that him them left the scene of the accident. A Border Patrol officer arrived very quickly on the scene and was instrumental in getting the ambulance to arrive very quickly, as well as to mobilize other BP officers who were able to, almost miraculously, apprehend the suspected driver of the truck. 
  
 They are going to have huge medical bills, co- pays, loss of time at work, and they will need to buy a car. Please help, Anything is appreciated! There is no donation too small. 
  
 Help spread the word! Share Tweet 5.4k shares on Facebook shares on Facebook ||||| A mother, father and their 6-year-old son were returning from a trip to Disneyland when, according to the survivors’ family, a man in a pickup truck turned a corner, smashed into their car and sped off. 
  
 The suspect, Constantino Banda-Acosta, was a man that border agents say had been deported 15 times over the span of 15 years. 
  
 In a statement provided to CNN, ICE confirmed that Banda-Acosta “has been repatriated to Mexico at least 15 times since 2002, most recently in January 2017.” 
  
 He — and another man arrested in connection with the crash — were both “Mexican nationals in the country illegally,” the statement said. 
  
 ICE is planning to take Banda-Acosta into custody once he is released by the San Diego police, who arrested him. He was charged with DUI, hit-and-run and driving without a license. 
  
 Banda-Acosta’s arraignment is scheduled for Wednesday, and his bail has been set at $100,000, the San Diego Union-Tribune reported. 
  
 An ICE spokeswoman said they would seek to deport Banda-Acosta after any conviction and sentence connected to the collision, according to the newspaper. 
  
 A Chula Vista Police Department official told the Union-Tribune that the suspect’s criminal history included allegations of domestic violence against his wife. Banda-Acosta has been arrested twice by Chula Vista police, including this past January. 
  
 The crash happened Saturday in San Ysidro. The family was a block away from its home when their car was struck by a truck that blew a stop sign. 
  
 The back seat on the driver’s side took the brunt of the impact, CNN affiliate KGTV reported. 
  
 That’s where the couple’s 6-year-old son, Lennox, was sitting. 
  
 Lennox was taken Rady Children’s Hospital with serious head injuries. A representative from the hospital said the boy is listed in “serious condition.” 
  
 A GoFundMe page has been set up to help pay for the child’s hospital expenses. 
  
 San Ysidro, the area in San Diego where the crash occurred, is about as close as one can get to the US-Mexico border. In fact, the neighborhood goes right up to the border in some places, and even its northernmost reaches are about two miles away from it. ||||| Image copyright FAMILY PICTURE Image caption The boy was travelling with his parents when their car was hit 
  
 A man charged in a drink-driving crash that seriously injured a California boy had been deported to Mexico 15 times in as many years, US officials say. 
  
 Constantino Banda-Acosta, 38, drove his truck through a stop sign and hit a car carrying a family of three on their way home from a trip to Disneyland. 
  
 They said they were one block from home when the collision occurred. 
  
 The six-year-old boy suffered brain trauma and is said to be in a serious condition. 
  
 The suspect fled but was arrested. 
  
 The truck hit the rear passenger door of the car on Saturday night in the San Ysidro district of San Diego, close to the US-Mexico border, said the family. 
  
 US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) said the suspect had been "repatriated to Mexico at least 15 times since 2002, most recently in January 2017". 
  
 "[ICE] has lodged a detainer against Mr Banda seeking to take him into custody if and when he is released by local authorities to pursue additional immigration enforcement action and/or criminal prosecution," a statement quoted by local broadcaster KGTV added. 
  
 He was charged with driving under influence, hit-and-run and driving without a licence. 
  
 Another man was also arrested in connection with the crash. 
  
 The boy is being treated at Rady Children's Hospital-San Diego. 
  
 His father told CBS8 broadcaster of his son: "Right now he's got a lot of swelling. 
  
 "He can't open one of his eyes, so he's kind of scared about why he can't see." 
  
 More on US immigration debate 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nisa Mickens, 15, was killed by an MS-13 gang including undocumented immigrants. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The church defying Trump by hiding immigrants facing deportation 
  
 Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning ||||| A drunken driving suspect in a hit-and-run crash that severely injured a 6-year-old boy in San Ysidro over the weekend had been deported from the U.S. at least 15 times, authorities said Tuesday. 
  
 Constantino Banda-Acosta, 38, was last deported Jan. 18, with at least 14 prior cases since 2002, federal authorities said. 
  
 Banda-Acosta is accused of speeding west on Camino de La Plaza, running a stop sign at Dairy Mart Road and slamming his pickup into a Honda Accord about 11:30 p.m. Saturday. The pickup driver did not stop. 
  
 Banda-Acosta, a Mexican citizen, was arrested about half an hour later, San Diego police and the U.S. Border Patrol said. 
  
 The car that was struck was occupied by a family driving home after a day trip to Disneyland. They were a block away from their home when the crash occurred, a relative said. 
  
 The speeding Chevrolet Silverado hit the driver and passenger’s side where the boy, Lennox Lake, was sitting in his car seat, said his grandmother, Cheryl Lake. 
  
 The boy’s father, Benjamin, became trapped. His wife, Ingrid, crawled out of the front passenger seat and rushed to aid Lennox, who was unconscious, not breathing and bleeding from his nostrils, ears and head, his grandmother said. 
  
 The child suffered a major head injury and was taken to a hospital. As of Tuesday night, he had undergone two surgeries at Rady Children’s Hospital, Cheryl Lake said. 
  
 Despite a long road ahead, his family and doctors are “cautiously optimistic” the boy will make a full recovery, his grandmother said. 
  
 She described Lennox as a friendly and smart boy. 
  
 "The kid makes friends everywhere he goes. He's just a delight as a grandson," Cheryl Lake said, fighting back tears. 
  
 Lennox has two older brothers, 14 and 16, who did not join the family on the trip to Disneyland. His family set up a GoFundMe page to raise funds for the medical bills and other expenses. 
  
 Soon after the collision, Border Patrol agents came upon the family’s wrecked Honda and fanned out in search of the hit-and-run driver. 
  
 A few blocks away, shortly after midnight, agents found a damaged pickup that matched the description Ingrid Lake gave them. Inside were two men, who were detained. 
  
 Banda-Acosta was identified as the driver. He was booked into jail on suspicion of felony hit-and-run with injury, drunken driving with injury and driving without a valid license. 
  
 The Border Patrol took custody of Banda-Acosta’s passenger, also an unauthorized immigrant, agency officials said. 
  
 Banda-Acosta is scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday . He was being held on $100,000 bail. 
  
 His criminal history includes arrests stemming from domestic violence allegations against his wife of 18 years, Chula Vista police Capt. Fritz Reber said. Chula Vista police arrested Banda-Acosta April 9, 2006 and Jan. 9 of this year. 
  
 ICE spokeswoman Lauren Mack said the agency would again seek deportation for Banda-Acosta after any conviction and sentence is served in connection with the DUI and hit-and-run crash. 
  
 The agency confirmed that, given its longstanding relationship with the San Diego County Sheriff’s Department, ICE is confident Banda-Acosta will be released to the agency once his criminal case is settled. 
  
 Cheryl Lake, the boy’s grandmother, was shocked and at a loss for words when a Union-Tribune reporter shared information about the number of times Banda-Acosta has been deported. 
  
 She said she couldn’t wrap her mind around how Banda-Acosta repeatedly entered the country illegally. 
  
 "There are not enough words to describe the huge impact his actions have had,” she said. 
  
 ICE confirmed that 15 removals is a significant number and indicates an egregious immigration violation. 
  
 San Diegans who support Trump's immigration policies saw the incident as proof that his plans are needed. 
  
 "Why do we continue to accept these travesties day after day?" said Imperial Beach resident Ernie Griffes via email. "Our state legislators encourage it with legislation. 
  
 "We need vetting, rules, order, structure. At a minimum, criminals need to go," said Patti Brasga via email. 
  
 San Diegans who oppose Trump's immigration policies spoke out against using this case to depict all immigrants as criminals. 
  
 "Drunk driving is a nation-wide problem that has affected the lives of far too many," said Andrea Guerrero, executive director of Alliance San Diego, via email. "Using the pain and suffering of victims and their families to vilify a single community is irresponsible and unhelpful. We all need to work together, immigrants and citizens alike, in an atmosphere of trust in order to solve public safety issues." 
  
 Because of the Banda-Acosta’s immigration history, the boy and his family will be eligible for help from the new Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement, or VOICE, office created by President Donald Trump in an executive order. The office aids victims of crimes committed by unauthorized immigrants. 
  
 The office was announced at the end of April and plans to study statistics related to unauthorized immigrants and crime in addition to supporting victims. 
  
 CAPTION A fire in an apartment in Chula Vista left two people displaced, officials said. A fire in an apartment in Chula Vista left two people displaced, officials said. CAPTION A fire in an apartment in Chula Vista left two people displaced, officials said. A fire in an apartment in Chula Vista left two people displaced, officials said. CAPTION A water main break was reported in North Park Thursday morning. A water main break was reported in North Park Thursday morning. CAPTION A 13-year-old boy diving for lobster on the opening day of the season was attacked by a shark Saturday morning near Beacon’s Beach in Encinitas, authorities said. A 13-year-old boy diving for lobster on the opening day of the season was attacked by a shark Saturday morning near Beacon’s Beach in Encinitas, authorities said. CAPTION A San Diego SWAT team surrounded a Sunset Cliffs home early Friday morning where at least one of two barricaded suspects had reportedly fired several shots toward police, a sergeant said. A San Diego SWAT team surrounded a Sunset Cliffs home early Friday morning where at least one of two barricaded suspects had reportedly fired several shots toward police, a sergeant said. CAPTION The driver of a flatbed truck was trapped in his vehicle and seriously injured Thursday when he slammed into the back of a stopped city water truck in Paradise Hills, authorities said. The driver of a flatbed truck was trapped in his vehicle and seriously injured Thursday when he slammed into the back of a stopped city water truck in Paradise Hills, authorities said. 
  
 Email: david.hernandez@sduniontribune.com 
  
 Phone: (619) 293-1876 
  
 Twitter: @D4VIDHernandez |||||