Obama's body man shares his secrets An exclusive interview with Reggie Love. 
  
 For about five years, it was Reggie Love’s duty to know everything about Barack Obama — and, at times, even more than the president knew about himself. 
  
 Love was that oddity in politics: the “body man” — part valet, part buddy, part whatever. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 “Most of it is showing up, solving problems, and trying to anticipate the needs and issues that may arise,” Love said in an interview with POLITICO following the release of his new book, “Power Forward: My Presidential Education.” 
  
 Love delves into many of those problems, needs and issues in his memoir, which follows his journey from Duke University, where he played basketball under famed Coach Mike Krzyzewski, to arriving in Washington in 2006, just 24 years old, for a gig working with then-Sen. Obama. The move from the court to Capitol Hill would bring Love all across the country and, eventually, to the White House. 
  
 Despite departing the White House in 2011 for business school, Love, now 33, still can recite the “go-to” items he had on hand while serving as Obama’s personal aide, including “tons of Purell” hand sanitizer, a MET-Rx energy bar and Nicorette (two milligrams) to help the president curb his craving for cigarettes. 
  
 “Those were constants,” he said. 
  
 Love, a political science major, came to politics somewhat indirectly. After graduating from college, he first pursued a career with the National Football League (he was originally recruited to play football at Duke, where he also became captain of the basketball team). But the NFL didn’t work out, so a friend recommended Love to Pete Rouse, then an aide to a young senator from Illinois. 
  
 He took a job with Obama, “because I thought he was a guy who represented a lot of what I stood for, education, health care … and he was a brother.” 
  
 Some of the “hardest times,” Love said, were just building his relationship with Obama in the early days — getting to know the lawmaker and earning his trust. 
  
 “There’s no trick for that, it just takes time,” Love said. 
  
 The basketball court is where he and Obama began to connect. 
  
 “He’s not a guy who’s gonna go out and fill up the stat column,” Love said of the president’s skills, but “he’s a guy that makes everyone better.” 
  
 “Great vision, great passer, will knock down an open shot, knows how to play defense, knows how to make all the rotations,” Love said. 
  
 In the book, Love describes a scene during the 2008 primary between then Democratic rivals Obama and Hillary Clinton. The pair exchanged words on a tarmac at Ronald Reagan National Airport — Clinton “unraveled,” Obama “keeping his cool,” Love writes. 
  
 “I remember Obama telling me later that day that he knew he was going to win the nomination after that moment,” he writes. 
  
 Still, should Clinton launch a bid in 2016, she would be “more than capable,” according to Love. 
  
 “I also think there are others out there who could — if she decides not to — I think there are other people out there that could carry the torch,” he said. 
  
 And Love isn’t ruling out a bid for office of his own someday. 
  
 “If there were a need and I was qualified and capable and it worked out, I would not say I would never do it, but it’s not something that’s on the list of the things next to do,” Love said. 
  
 Love’s book offers a unique perspective on Obama’s career, from early mornings at the gym to working long into the night. There are plenty of stories, including how Love once forgot the then-presidential candidate’s briefcase at a campaign stop. 
  
 But what was in the bag of the man responsible for the president’s bag? 
  
 “My checkbook, my passport. I’d have a bag of potato chips just in case I couldn’t find something to eat on the road that day. Tons of water,” Love listed. 
  
 But weeks on the road meant always carrying another item on his person: some stationery. 
  
 “If I couldn’t physically be there, I’d take time to write a note and say to a friend congrats on a wedding, or birthday, or ‘Hey, mom, I’m in Iowa, it’s cold here,’” he said, noting that he still carries a backpack because “you just never know.” ||||| Obama's 'Body Man' Looks Back On His Presidential Education 
  
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty Images Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty Images 
  
 Power Forward My Presidential Education by Reggie Love Hardcover, 213 pages | purchase close overlay Buy Featured Book Your purchase helps support NPR programming. How? 
  
 Reggie Love was Barack Obama's body man during his first campaign for president and into his time in office. It was a demanding job: part personal assistant, part aide, part whatever the boss needs you to do, whenever he needs it. 
  
 Love, the author of the new memoir Power Forward: My Presidential Education, tells NPR's Arun Rath that he remembers the first time he met then-Senator Obama. He had traveled to Washington for a job interview. 
  
 "I was 23 years old and we had a brief exchange," he remembers. "[Obama] asks me what my ambitions are. Would I someday want to run for something? I think I was less than impressive. I was kind of overwhelmed and under-prepared." 
  
 At that point, Love, who played both basketball and football at Duke, had spent time with the Dallas Cowboys and Green Bay Packers, but hadn't been drafted and was realizing that he wouldn't have a career as a professional athlete. 
  
 He tells Rath about what it was like to leave that dream behind — and how he handled shooting hoops with the president. 
  
 Interview Highlights 
  
 Enlarge this image toggle caption Anna Ruch/Courtesy of Simon & Schuster Anna Ruch/Courtesy of Simon & Schuster 
  
 On transitioning from athlete to political aide 
  
 It was a weird time for me because something I had spent so much of my time invested into, in terms of just being an athlete, was coming to an end. I was kind of grappling with that a bit. But I think, more importantly, what I really thought was that then-Senator Obama was very impressive. I knew I wanted to learn from him and I wanted to participate in the political process and serve. 
  
 On the role of the body man 
  
 The biggest part about it is that you want to be prepared to anticipate the needs that may come or arise as the candidate or the principal is making [his] way through the day. It's everything from making sure they have a proper meal to eat at lunchtime or dinnertime or whatever, to making sure that they are prepared with all the detailed information they may need for an event. There were some days when I would sit next to the teleprompter operator to make sure that while the candidate was on a riff, that the teleprompter operator didn't get too out of control with where he was scrolling the text. You're a problem-solver. 
  
 On what he shared with the president 
  
 "We were kinda the only two guys [in the West Wing] who knew what it was like not to be able to catch a cab in New York." 
  
 I felt like we could identify with one another a lot because, though we have a very diverse team and a diverse administration, you know, there weren't a lot of black men hovering around in that first floor of the West Wing. And I thought that was sort of a bonding issue. We were kinda the only two guys who knew what it was like not to be able to catch a cab in New York. 
  
 On playing basketball with Obama 
  
 There was a little pressure to perform. You didn't want to be the guy who caused the candidate to lose the game. I got to admit, I enjoy playing with the president on his team, and I don't really like playing against him ... because we always sort of get into it about calls. Like, 'That wasn't a foul,' or 'He was out of bounds,' or 'He double-dribbled.' It's hard to push back at times. 
  
 On what working with Obama taught him about race and power in politics 
  
 Anything's possible. When I was growing up, when I was 13 or 12 or whatever, I don't know that I could have said that as a young African-American male in the South. And I think that's a very powerful thing, and think that is the reason why I noticed there wasn't a lot of diversity on the Hill. I wanted to be a part of that change. ||||| CLOSE On Capital Download, Susan Page interviews Reggie Love, the president's constant shadow as his 'body man.' 
  
 Reggie Love meets with USA TODAY Washington Bureau Chief Susan Page for a Capital Download segment. (Photo: Jeff Franko, USA TODAY) 
  
 WASHINGTON — Reggie Love says his job as "body man" for Barack Obama during the 2008 campaign and at the White House required him to be constantly ready but never intrusive — "like a child in Victorian England, if that child were 6-foot-5 and carrying a Tide stain remover pen." 
  
 Also, if that child had "365" tattooed on one bicep and "332" on the other — the number of electoral votes Obama carried in 2008 and 2012. 
  
 For five years, Love was the 20-something assistant by Obama's side, an experience he details in Power Forward: My Presidential Education, published Tuesday by Simon & Schuster. "I was his DJ, his Kindle, his travel agent, his daughters' basketball coach, his messenger, his punching bag, his alarm clock, his vending machine, his chief of stuff ...his surrogate son." 
  
 The book is no tell-all, but it does make it clear what a grind it is to run for president unless you already are president — 2016 hopefuls, take note — and it provides some behind-the-scenes insights of Obama's views on race. That's a topic the president has been willing to discuss publicly only occasionally despite his standing as the nation's groundbreaking African-American president. 
  
  
  
 Reggie Love has "365" tattooed on one bicep and "332" on the other — the number of electoral votes Obama carried in 2008 and 2012, respectively. (Photo: Jeff Franko, USA TODAY) 
  
 One bond between Obama and Love was their mutual obsession with basketball. Another were the lessons Obama taught Love about negotiating a largely white world as a black man. 
  
 "I always said to the president, the candidate, 'You had more exposure to it than I did because your mom's white. You're half-white, so you're one step ahead of me," Love, now 32, told Capital Download. "The one thing he said to me was, 'When people look at me, they don't see a mixed guy. They see a black man.' " 
  
 Once in the White House, Love says, race was one reason the president continued to lean on him. "No matter what, he knew he could trust me," he writes. "Beyond that, I was the only other brother working on the first floor of the West Wing, in the bubble every day." Given the demographics of the country's most powerful places, he says, it was hardly surprising there were no other black men in the inner White House circle. 
  
 When they were on the road, many people "assumed I was the security guy," Love writes. "He's tall. He's black. He must be security. ... I always responded with some variation of 'No, you want the old, white, Clint Eastwood-looking dude over there,' " directing them to the nearest Secret Service agent. 
  
 Politics was not Love's passion. Sports was. He played forward for and was captain of the Duke Blue Devils basketball team, leading the team to the NCAA national championship in 2001. After graduation, he had hoped to land a contract in the NBA or the NFL. 
  
  
  
 When that didn't work out, and after hanging out at his parents' North Carolina home for a while, he was hired as a $28,000-a-year assistant in Obama's Senate office — working nights as a bouncer to make ends meet. Two years later, when Obama decided to make a run for the White House, Love became his body man, one of those peculiar but pivotal jobs in a presidential campaign. 
  
 After the campaign and three years in the same role at the White House, Love left in 2011 to earn an MBA at the Wharton School of Business, a program he says surely wouldn't have admitted him except for his letter of recommendation from the president. He's now often back on the road, working as a partner and vice president of a young, diversified financial holding company called Transatlantic Holdings. 
  
 Being Obama's constant shadow during the campaign gave Love a bird's-eye view of an unexpected and critical encounter with Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
  
 In December 2007, Billy Shaheen, co-chair of Clinton's New Hampshire campaign and the husband of now-Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, told a reporter that Obama's admission of youthful drug use would open the door to Republican attacks and questions, including over whether he had ever sold drugs. 
  
  
  
 Reggie Love's new book, "Power Forward: My Presidential Education." (Photo: Jeff Franko, USA TODAY) 
  
 Soon afterward, their private planes were parked side by side at Reagan National Airport, and Clinton asked to speak privately with him on the tarmac. She apologized. He replied that the apology was largely meaningless given the e-mails her camp was rumored to be sending out labeling him as a Muslim. 
  
 "I saw Clinton very animated," Love recalls, while Obama was "very cool and very calm." It reminded him of a combative weigh-in between two boxers before a match. Later that day, Obama told him "he knew he was going to win the nomination after that moment on the tarmac, because Clinton had unraveled." 
  
 On the campaign trail and as president, Obama often was handed good-luck charms. "Everything from military badges to poker chips to special rocks to handmade dream catchers," Love says. He would thrust them in his pocket or hand them off to Love to carry — but he says Obama kept them all, and at times even now finds "silent encouragement" from them. 
  
 Some are collected in a small bowl in the White House Treaty Room, he says. "When you're in this insular world and there's fences and security and Secret Service," he says, they provide "a very good grounding ... and a good reminder to him of all the people he's met along the way and all the people he hasn't met that have a lot of their hopes and dreams sort of tied into his leadership." 
  
 And it was Love who introduced Obama to the music of Jay Z. 
  
 On the 2008 campaign trail, they had met the rapper and entrepreneur, and Obama asked Love to upload some of his songs to his phone, to listen to when he worked out the next morning. He liked them and asked for more. 
  
 Fast-forward to last month, when Mike Huckabee, a potential 2016 GOP contender, blasted the president and first lady for allowing their daughters to listen to the sexually suggestive lyrics of Jay Z and Beyoncé songs. 
  
 "Mike Huckabee must not have the Internet," Love asked incredulously. "How are you going to keep your kids from listening to anything? You can't shelter your kids from everything. It's just impossible." Earlier, asked what Americans don't fully understand about Obama, he cited how devoted a father he is. 
  
 The 6:30 family dinner on the White House schedule each evening was treated "like a meeting in the Situation Room," he says. "There was a hard stop before that dinner." 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1CV7ng0 |||||