Media playback is not supported on this device
The Magpies lost 3-2 at 17th-placed Norwich, despite having twice equalised, which leaves them six points adrift of the Canaries.
"It is more difficult but we have to keep confident that we can still do it," said Benitez.
"We have seven games to go and we have to keep pushing. If we start winning games we still have time."
The Canaries have six games remaining, but are well clear of Newcastle and four points better off than Sunderland, who occupy the final relegation spot after a 0-0 draw with West Brom.
Victory at Carrow Road - courtesy of a 93rd-minute Martin Olsson winner - was Norwich's second successive league win, having picked up three points at West Brom before the international break.
"It was a strange game but we were the better team throughout," said Norwich manager Alex Neil.
Media playback is not supported on this device
"We have great spirit here and we showed that in abundance.
"Football is an entertainment sport and everyone has gone home with their money's worth. We have started to turn it around, that's seven points in three games."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Sunderland's stalemate with the Baggies meant they conceded more ground to the Canaries.
The Black Cats are at home to leaders Leicester next Sunday and then travel to Norwich for what could prove to be a huge match in the context of the relegation battle.
"We have got to beat Leicester next week and then we have got Norwich to come, so the closer we get points-wise to Norwich, the bigger that game is going to be," said Sunderland manager Sam Allardyce.
"We can't afford to be any further away. We have a game in hand - which is Everton here - but that doesn't happen until the last week of the season and we don't want to be too far away from Norwich when we play them, so we have got to try to beat Leicester now."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Crystal Palace remain the only team in the top four tiers yet to win a game in 2016, but a point away at West Ham pulled them seven points clear of 18th place Sunderland.
"When you are 2-1 down at West Ham, in the form they are in, you take a 2-2," said manager Alan Pardew.
"I'm delighted for the team and they showed their heart is still very much in it. We've got ourselves into a bit of trouble but this is a great result.
"Every point in the Premier League is gold dust, especially to get something at West Ham. It was a great performance and a great result. West Ham had to defend for their lives at the end."