Vaccinate 'bundles of dribble and sputum', David Leyonhjelm says, as 'no jab, no pay' policy passes Parliament 
  
 Updated 
  
 Crossbench senator David Leyonhjelm has thrown his support behind the Government's "no jab, no pay" legislation, arguing babies should be vaccinated so they do not cause other people to fall ill. 
  
 The Liberal Democrat, whose party stands for civil liberties and individual freedom, has told the Upper House he backs laws that restrict welfare payments to parents who do not vaccinate their children. 
  
 "Parents do not have a right to welfare payments," he said. 
  
 "It's bad enough that people continue to bring wave upon wave [of] these little blighters into the world. 
  
 "The least they can do is immunise their bundles of dribble and sputum, so they don't make the rest of us sick." 
  
 The laws, which withhold family payments worth up to $15,000 per year from parents who fail to have their children vaccinated, was passed by Parliament this morning. 
  
 The changes mean parents who conscientiously object to vaccination for philosophical or religious reasons will not be able to collect the payments. 
  
 Only families who are unable to vaccinate their children for medical reasons will be exempt. 
  
 More than 90 per cent of children aged under five have been vaccinated in Australia, however more than 39,000 children under seven have not been immunised because their parents hold objections. 
  
 Announcing the laws in April, then-prime minister Tony Abbott said the laws were designed to encourage more families to get their children vaccinated. 
  
 "It's a very important measure to keep our children and our families as safe as possible," Mr Abbott said. 
  
 "The choice made by families not to immunise their children is not supported by public policy or medical research, nor should such action be supported by taxpayers in the form of childcare payments." 
  
 The laws passed the Senate to become law with the support of the Coalition, Labor and the Greens. 
  
 Topics: community-and-society, family-and-children, vaccines-and-immunity, health, federal-government, federal-parliament, australia 
  
 First posted ||||| Libertarian senator David Leyonhjelm has praised childless Australians in a speech in the Senate, saying they should receive thanks instead of pity or criticism. 
  
 Play Video Replay Video Play Video Don't Play 'Won't somebody think of the childless?' The childless subsidise those who do have children & 'the least they can do is immunise their bundles of dribble & spit' says libertarian Senator David Leyonhjelm. 
  
 The NSW Senator made his remarks while supporting the government's bill to remove family payments and childcare subsidies for families that do not immunise their children, which passed the Senate on Monday. 
  
 "It's bad enough that people continue to bring wave upon wave of these little blighters into the world," Senator Leyonhjelm said. 
  
 "The least they can do is immunise their bundles of dribble and sputum so they don't make the rest of us sick." 
  
 Senator Leyonhjelm, who does not have children, said it was time to ask: "Won't someone please think of the childless?" 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 He said while politicians were "obsessed" with families, many Australian households were childless. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, couples families without children are expected to overtake couples with children during the 2020s. 
  
 "To the childless people of Australia, I want to say, on behalf of this Parliament, thank you for being childless. 
  
 "You work for more years and become more productive than the rest of Australia. You pay thousands and thousands of dollars more tax than other Australians. You get next to no welfare ... 
  
 "But you pay when other people get pregnant, you pay when they give birth, you pay when they stay at home to look after their offspring ..." Senator Leyonhjelm said. 
  
 The Liberal Democrat said that he was sorry than instead of receiving thanks, Australians without children were "often ignored, pitied, considered strange, or even thought of as irresponsible". 
  
 "For your sake, I hope the children you are forced to support don't end up as juvenile delinquents, and I hope that they get immunised so that you don't end up getting sick. Because you'll pay then, too." 
  
 To the childless people of Australia, I want to say, on behalf of this Parliament, thank you for being childless. Senator David Leyonhjelm 
  
 The Liberal Democrats also want to see family payments restricted, childcare subsidies abolished, and the deregulation of the childcare sector, to cut childcare costs. They also want to see the government's paid parental leave scheme - which they see as an "arbitrary payment" - stopped 
  
 "Children generate great joy, warmth, and meaning for their parents. They are a precious gift. What more do you want?" 
  
 The new "no jab, no pay" rules, which is a 2015 budget measure, are due to start on January 1, 2016. They will save about $500 million over four years. 
  
 Under the scheme, parents would only be able to get an exemption for "valid" medical reasons - not because they conscientiously object to vaccination. 
  
 According to the Department of Health, the percentage of children registered as conscientious objectors has increased from 0.23 per cent of total children in 1999 to 1.77 per cent last year. 
  
 Follow us on Twitter ||||| Video 'No jab, no play' law moves to Senate 
  
 Parents who don't immunise their children will stop receiving childcare benefits next year but one senator believes welfare for all parents should be stripped back. 
  
 The federal government's no-jab-no-pay laws will remove childcare benefits, rebates and the Family Tax Benefit A end-of-year supplement from parents who don't immunise their children. 
  
 The changes start on January 1, 2016, with exemptions for medical reasons, after legislation passed the Senate on Monday. 
  
 Liberal Democrats Senator David Leyonhjelm, speaking in support of the measures, said childless families should not have to subsidise the lifestyles of those who choose to have "little blighters". 
  
 In fact, most welfare payments for parents should be abolished, he said. 
  
 "The government is not your parent or your spouse - get over it." 
  
 Senator Leyonhjelm thanked and apologised to childless Australians. 
  
 They get next to no welfare, pay more tax and use less health services but are forced to subsidise the lifestyles of those who get pregnant and take time off work to care for children, as well as all the medical and education costs incurred in the years that follow. 
  
 And in the case of those who want to have children but can't, forcing them to subsidise those with children is like making people in "wheelchairs pay for other people's running shoes", he said. 
  
 The no-jab-no-pay laws sailed through with the backing of Labor, the Greens and crossbench senators. 
  
 Labor said the Department of Human Services needed to conduct an intensive review of how the scheme was working, with particular focus on the seven per cent of parents who don't vaccinate their children but are not registered conscientious objectors. 
  
 Video Childcare vaccination changes on the way 
  
 Independent Senator Nick Xenophon said adverse impacts of vaccination were rare but possible, and called for a Canadian-style scheme which would compensate those affected. 
  
 Greens Leader Richard Di Natale attempted to move an amendment delaying the changes to January 1, 2018, arguing it shouldn't occur until data systems were fully operational in late 2017 to avoid people wrongfully losing payments. 
  
 But government frontbencher Mitch Fifield said any parent wishing to dispute a finding that they had not vaccinated their child would have a minimum of two weeks to provide documentary evidence before payments were affected. 
  
 Video Mixed views on 'no jab, no pay' |||||