An eagle tore a Coast Guard officer's hoodie and chased him down a mountain with multiple aerial attacks as he ran faster than he'd ever run, causing him to stumble and lose his cellphone. 
  
 The big bird then pecked at the phone a few times, then flew off with the device, which hasn't been seen since and was probably dumped in the ocean, according to the victim, Lt. Andres Ayure. 
  
 "That was my 'welcome to Dutch Harbor' story," said Ayure, supervisor of the Marine Safety Detachment in Unalaska, who'd only arrived three days earlier. Three days later, on a Saturday, he decided to enjoy his day off by hiking Ballyhoo Mountain and climbed to the top of the 1,634-foot peak, which overlooks the airport. 
  
 The hike to the top was pleasant enough, and Ayure saw other people as he climbed. He was wearing shorts and an American Eagle-brand hooded sweatshirt. When he was about a quarter-way down, an eagle swooped him three times, only missing him because he managed to duck, but made contact on the fourth attack. 
  
 "It got close enough to hook me on my hoodie," said Ayure, displaying the sweatshirt with a hole in the hood. The eagle made about another six attempted attacks as he fled down the mountain. About halfway down, the attacks stopped when the bird grabbed the cellphone that had fallen from his pocket. Ayure, though didn't stop running until he reached the bottom. 
  
 "It was crazy," said Ayure, who arrived in Alaska from the San Francisco area. The next day, Ayure and two other Coast Guardsmen returned to search unsuccessfully for the cellphone, holding up hiking poles to appear larger and discourage aggressive eagles. Fortunately, there were no further attacks. 
  
 "I'm definitely keeping an eye on them when I go out now," Ayure said. 
  
 The Coast Guard cellphone recovery party was seen by local resident Andy McCracken, who said another hiker that day reported eagle harassment on the mountain. And he personally witnessed an eagle briefly participating in a local treasure hunt, when the bird opened a container containing a sign-in sheet on the mountain top, grabbed the paper, flew a short distance, and dropped it. 
  
 McCracken said he returned the paper to its cache box, among 10 around town in the Geo Adventure Challenge, sponsored by the Unalaska Department of Parks, Culture and Recreation. And at the start of Saturday's Ballyhoo Run, racers were advised to watch out for the birds, though no eagle encounters were reported to PCR, which sponsored the race up and down the mountain. 
  
 Hundreds of eagles live in Unalaska/Dutch Harbor, the nation's busiest fishing port, an artificially high population. Hundreds gather around trash bins, perch on street lights and crab pots, fly dangerously close to oncoming vehicles, and every year around this time, claw peoples' heads. Warning signs are posted annually near known attack sites, including across from city hall, and the Dutch Harbor Post Office. 
  
 Jim Paulin can be reached at jpaulin@reportalaska.com. ||||| Unalaska (Ferry Route) 
  
 Wildlife Viewing 
  
 World War II fortifications atop Mt. Ballyhoo 
  
 If it seems this community at the start of the western Aleutians has a dual personality, there's a reason. The town of Unalaska is spread across two islands. There's Unalaska Island, where most people here live. Then, there's much smaller Amaknak Island, an islet in Dutch Harbor that is home to the community's extensive industrial port area. The two sides of Unalaska are connected by bridge. 
  
 The ferry docks in Dutch Harbor near the north end of Amaknak Island. If you plan to explore on your own, make your first order of business getting a land access permit. The permit gives permission to hike off area roads or to drive on Ballyhoo Mountain or Strawberry Hill, on property owned by the Ounalashka Corp. During weekday working hours, permits may be obtained in town at the Ounalashka Corp. building, 400 Salmon Way; for information, call (907) 581-1276. Permits are also available at the Aleutian World War II National Historic Center, less than a mile from the ferry dock. 
  
 Unalaska is a birder's paradise, with more than 100 species, some of them rare and unique to the Chain, including whiskered auklets and ancient murrelets. Red-legged kittiwakes may also be found here. Bald eagles are numerous. Among the country's rarest songbirds, the white-plumaged McKay's buntings may be seen here in fall/winter. (From May through October, a largely white songbird is more likely a snow bunting, since the McKay's buntings stay close to their breeding grounds on the Bering Sea during those months.) 
  
 Sea birds and sea lions can be spotted on the shores near Priest Rock 
  
 Short-tailed shearwaters are among the area's most common birds and can travel in massive mega-flocks. In 2006, a crabbing boat piloting through early morning darkness in Unalaska Bay was hit with a hail of several hundred dead and dying shearwaters, and area beaches were found littered with more than 1,500 bird carcasses. 
  
 Half a mile from the ferry dock, a side road leads to 1,634-foot-high Mount Ballyhoo, site of the Aleutian World War II National Historic Area. Mount Ballyhoo offers a prime vantage point for viewing the area, as well as for up-close views of bald eagle nesting areas. 
  
 From Airport Beach Road, trails leading off the main road will take you around the coastline at Bunker Hill. A walk along Bunker Hill trail is rich in bird and other wildlife sightings, including fox, harbor seals, harbor porpoise and numerous seabirds, including gulls, cormorants, marbled murrelets, pigeon guillemots and black oystercatchers. 
  
 A bald eagle making a racket near Dutch Harbor processing boats 
  
 Bald eagles nest on the cliff sides, and on the eastern side of Bunker Hill. In winter, emperor geese may be seen in Unalaska Bay. Look also for tufted and horned puffins, black oystercatchers, red-faced cormorants, mergansers, harlequins and other ducks, as well as pigeon guillemots. If you haven't had enough of eagles, check out the city landfill, on north Unalaska Island. Songbirds include snow bunting, Lapland longspur, redpolls, song sparrow, winter wren, bank swallow, American dipper and the distinctively colorful, delightfully common gray-crowned rosy-finch. 
  
 If you will be staying over in Unalaska rather than returning by ferry, consider a trip to Summer Bay, on the western shore of Unalaska Island, to view Steller sea lions, tufted puffins and — just maybe — some whiskered auklets. The whiskered auklet is found in only two places: in an arc from the Aleutians through the Commander Islands, and in the Kuril Islands between the Kamchatka Peninsula and Japan. The birds breed on the rocky islands, and feed on nearby tiderips. At least some stay close by year-round, nesting in August. ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. |||||