OK, gridlocked politicians we're used to. But why padlock the Statue of Liberty? 
  
 FILE - In this Jan. 4, 1996, file photo the sun gleams down on the still-closed Washington Monument as the federal budget impasse continued in Washington. OK, gridlocked politicians we're used to. But... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Dec. 31, 1995, file photo, President Bill Clinton meets with House Speaker Newt Gingrich of Ga., left, and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, to grapple with competing balanced... (Associated Press) 
  
 FILE - In this Nov. 14, 1995, file photo, Mike Fetters afixes a closed sign on a door at the Smithsonian's Air and Space Museum in Washington as parts of the federal government were shutdown due a federal... (Associated Press) 
  
 A man walks past Independence Hall at Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia, Monday, Sept. 30, 2013 as the government teeters on the brink of a partial shutdown at midnight unless Congress... (Associated Press) 
  
 The Washington Monument is seen through windows in a door in the U.S. Capitol Sunday morning, Sept. 29, 2013, as the United States braces for a partial government shutdown Tuesday after the White House... (Associated Press) 
  
 You don't see other democracies shuttering landmarks and sending civil servants home just because their political parties can't get along. Belgian civil servants, for example, carried on nicely for a year and a half while their politicians bickered over forming a new government. 
  
 The partial shutdown Tuesday is a quirk of American history. So if you're bored with blaming House Republicans or President Barack Obama, you can lay some responsibility on the Founding Fathers. 
  
 Or blame President Jimmy Carter for his rectitude. Or ex-House Speaker Newt Gingrich for his hissy fit over how he exited Air Force One. 
  
 A history of government shutdowns, American-style: 
  
 ___ 
  
 1789: Balance of powers. 
  
 The framers of the Constitution gave Congress control over spending as a way to limit the power of the presidency. The government can only spend money "in consequence of appropriations made by law," or in other words, after Congress says so and with the president's signature. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1800s: Power struggles. 
  
 Turns out it's not easy to shoo federal bureaucrats away from the piggy bank. 
  
 When they wanted to spend more than Congress gave, the War Department and other agencies ordered stuff on credit. Then they would go to Congress seeking an appropriation to pay the bills. Lawmakers felt obliged to cover the government's debts, but they weren't happy about it. The executive branch was undermining Congress's power of the purse. 
  
 Congress responded with a series of laws that eventually got one of those dreadful Washington monikers: the Anti-Deficiency Act. 
  
 Because of the act, officials who mistakenly spend money Congress hasn't OK'd face disciplinary action, ranging from firing to hours stuck in mind-numbing budget training. There are exceptions for spending to protect lives or property. 
  
 But willful overspending is a crime that carries the threat of fines and two years in prison. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1900s: A delicate balance. 
  
 The Anti-Deficiency Act seems clear. But as usual, Congress sent mixed messages. Lawmakers routinely failed to pass most of each year's dozen or so appropriations bills on time. Sometimes agencies went a full year without a budget. Usually lawmakers would smooth that over with a short-term money approval, called a "continuing resolution" in Washington-speak. 
  
 Sometimes Congress couldn't even agree on those: Stopgap resolutions got tangled up for days or a couple of weeks in political fights over matters such as abortion, foreign aid or congressional pay raises. Sort of like the current fight over health care. 
  
 But government agencies didn't shut down and Cabinet secretaries weren't led away in handcuffs. 
  
 Agency chiefs might delay workers' pay and put items such as travel and new contracts on hold. But they assumed Congress didn't want them to turn off the lights and go home. Eventually lawmakers would cough up a spending bill to retroactively paper over the funding gap. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1980: An inconvenient truth. 
  
 This look-the-other-way system worked for decades. Until the Carter administration. 
  
 A stickler for the rules, Carter asked his attorney general to look into the Anti-Deficiency Act. In April 1980, Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti issued a startling opinion. "The legal authority for continued operations either exists or it does not," he wrote. 
  
 When it does not, government must send employees home. They can't work for free or with the expectation that they will be paid someday. 
  
 What's more, Civiletti declared, any agency chief who broke that law would be prosecuted. 
  
 Five days later, funding for the Federal Trade Commission expired amid a congressional disagreement over limiting the agency's powers. The FTC halted operations, canceled court dates and meetings, and sent 1,600 workers packing, apparently the first agency ever closed by a budget dispute. 
  
 Embarrassed lawmakers made a quick fix. The FTC reopened the next day. The estimated cost of the brouhaha: $700,000. 
  
 Carter, a Democratic president forever stymied by his own party in Congress, ordered the whole government to be ready to shut down when the budget year ended on Oct. 1, 1980, in case lawmakers missed their deadline for appropriations bills. 
  
 A report by what's now the Government Accountability Office captured federal officials' dismay: "That the federal government would shut its doors was, they said, incomprehensible, inconceivable, unthinkable." 
  
 It almost happened. Funding for many agencies did expire, but just for a few hours, and nobody was sent home. 
  
 Near the end of his term, Civiletti further clarified the law's meaning. In a government-wide shutdown, the military, air traffic control, prisons and other work that protects human safety or property would continue. So would things such as Social Security benefits, which Congress has financed indefinitely. 
  
 ___ 
  
 1981-1990: Playing chicken. 
  
 With the threat of shutdown as a weapon, budget fights would never be the same, and a big one was brewing. 
  
 Republican Ronald Reagan moved into the White House in January 1981 with a promise to cut taxes and shrink government, setting up a showdown with Democrats who ran the House. 
  
 High noon came early on Monday, Nov. 23, 1981. 
  
 The government had technically been without money all weekend, but Congress approved emergency spending to keep it running. That morning, Reagan wielded his first veto. He was making a stand against "budget-busting policies," the president declared, sending confused federal workers streaming out of offices in Washington and across the nation. 
  
 It was the first government shutdown. But it lasted only hours. By that afternoon, Congress approved a three-week spending extension more to Reagan's liking. Workers returned Tuesday morning. The estimated cost: more than $80 million. 
  
 The pattern was set. Over his two terms, Reagan and congressional Democrats would regularly argue to the brink of shutdown, and twice more they sent workers home for a half-day. 
  
 President George H.W. Bush used the tactic only once, during the budget wrangling that punctured his "no new taxes" pledge. 
  
 That partial shutdown over the 1990 Columbus Day weekend mostly served to miff tourists who found national park visitor centers locked and Smithsonian museums closed. 
  
 Shutdown threats were becoming ho-hum, just more Washington games. After all, what politician would relish a full body plunge into the "unthinkable"? 
  
 ___ 
  
 1995-96: The real thing. 
  
 Cue President Bill Clinton and Gingrich. 
  
 Two big men with big ideas and big-time egos, the Democratic president and the Republican House speaker charged into a cage match and ended up wrestling the U.S. government to the ground. Twice. 
  
 These two shutdowns, for six days and 21 days, were the longest ever. Until now they were assumed to have taught politicians the folly of ever again powering down the world's most powerful government. Maybe not. 
  
 Serious issues were at stake in 1995 _ the future of Medicare, tax cuts, aid for the poor, the budget deficit. But they got lost in the absurdities: 
  
 _The shutdowns didn't save money; they cost millions. 
  
 _Despite all the buildup, most of government didn't close, because of complexities of the federal budget and exemptions for essential workers. 
  
 _Still, the first shutdown resulted in 800,000 workers eventually getting paid for staying home. 
  
 _Despite public disgust, Clinton and the Republicans failed to settle all their disputes and soon idled 280,000 employees for another three weeks, through Christmas and into the New Year. 
  
 _The effects rippled through the economy, harming federal contractors and businesses that serve visitors to national parks and industries that must work with federal inspectors. 
  
 _The tone of the whole exercise was set when a huffy Gingrich suggested he had steered the government to a standstill because Clinton relegated him to the back door of Air Force One on an overseas trip. The public tantrum delighted Democrats and cartoonists alike. 
  
 The president was judged to have "won" the tussle. Republicans took a drubbing in the polls and ended up accepting most of Clinton's conditions in a compromise that seemed more like crying uncle. 
  
 But faith in government may have been the biggest loser. 
  
 A footnote: On the January day that missing workers were scheduled to finally return to their posts, the Northeast was just starting to dig out from an extreme blizzard. 
  
 After weeks of insisting it was vital to get government back to work quickly, Clinton decided to keep Washington closed another four days. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Follow Connie Cass on Twitter: https://twitter.com/ConnieCass ||||| There was no shadow of doubt at the White House as the clocked ticked down to midnight Monday. 
  
 Officials suggested that a refusal to negotiate over funding the government was the winning strategy. 
  
 White House officials expressed confidence they wouldn’t have to back down in the slightest, while aides close to Obama, former administration officials and top Democratic strategists who confer with the White House say the chances of them negotiating with Republicans are slim to none. 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT 
  
 Sources said the White House believes GOP divisions, and polls showing more people would blame Republicans in Congress for a shutdown, mean Obama — who has been blamed for giving in too much in previous bargaining sessions — won’t have to give an inch. 
  
 White House officials were even more emboldened by support from Senate Republicans, including Sen. Susan Collins Susan CollinsThe prepaid rule: A big loss for McConnell and Perdue, a big win for consumers McConnell promises women can take part in healthcare meetings Watch: Live coverage of acting FBI director's first public comments MORE of Maine, who said publicly that she disagreed with the House Republican strategy of linking the Affordable Care Act with “the continuing functioning of government.” 
  
 Some Republicans in the House on Monday also expressed public support for moving a clean funding measure, something the White House will see as giving it more leverage. 
  
 Those close to the White House say Republicans have backed themselves into a corner with few options remaining. 
  
 “This is truly [Speaker] John Boehner John BoehnerFeehery: Mend it, don’t end it Press: Ryan’s gift to Dems Democrats turn tables on GOP in ObamaCare messaging war MORE’s [R-Ohio] worst nightmare,” one former senior administration official said. “This is Republican on Republican violence right now. This has absolutely nothing to do with Democrats or the president. So all Obama has to do now is sit back.” 
  
 The battle isn’t about “lack of engagement,” the former official added. 
  
 “The president could go to the Capitol and give the speech of his life on why we shouldn’t shut down the government. But you have this Tea Party base that will never be placated, and they’re itching for a fight. But I have news for them: They won’t win it,” the official said. 
  
 Another former administration official added, “The question isn’t, should he negotiate. It’s who does he negotiate with. Who up there is actually empowered to cut a deal. It’s not clear. They can’t make up their minds amongst themselves, so who can he negotiate with to reach a deal that sticks?” 
  
 White House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer backed that sentiment in an interview on CNN. 
  
 “What the Republicans want is to extract some ideological concession in order to save face for the Tea Party that funds the government for two months,” Pfeiffer said. “What happens two months from now? What are they going to want then? Full repeal of ObamaCare? Overturn of Roe v. Wade? An installment of [Mitt] Romney as president? At some point, we have to bring this cycle of hostage taking and brinksmanship to an end.” 
  
 In the lead-up to the shutdown, Obama sent strong signals that he felt he was on the right side of the fight. On Saturday, with the House in session and voting on legislation to avoid the shutdown, the president played a round of golf. 
  
 Likewise, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid Harry ReidRacial representation: A solution to inequality in the People’s House Dems threaten to bring Senate to a crawl over FBI firing Senate ref holds power over Trump agenda MORE (D-Nev.) — who has been coordinating closely with the White House — was in no rush to convene the upper chamber on Sunday. 
  
 The first former senior administration official credited Reid with stepping up his role in the fight. “Harry Reid is basically saying, ‘No way, not again,’ ” the former official said. 
  
 Some Republicans accused the White House of over-confidence Monday and said Obama risked getting plenty of blame for a shutdown by not negotiating with Republicans. 
  
 “If we’re unable to avoid a crisis in the next few weeks, the president will have to explain why he sat at home and did nothing to help find a solution,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Boehner John BoehnerFeehery: Mend it, don’t end it Press: Ryan’s gift to Dems Democrats turn tables on GOP in ObamaCare messaging war MORE. 
  
 “Obama is the president, and his job is to lead,” said Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman at the Republican National Committee. “The longer he refuses to come to the table, the more Americans will realize he’s the typical politician he promised he wouldn’t be.” 
  
 With cable news networks displaying countdown clocks until the deadline Monday, Obama did telegraph a willingness to at least talk to congressional leaders. 
  
 “I suspect I will be speaking to the leaders today, tomorrow and the next day,” Obama told reporters earlier in the day. 
  
 Later in the day, however, he signaled a tougher line, stating that “one faction of one party in one house of Congress in one branch of government doesn’t get to shut down the entire government just to refight an election.” 
  
 “You don’t get to extract a ransom for doing your job,” Obama said. 
  
 Those close to the White House predicted that a deal would eventually be reached, even after the deadline. But they reaffirmed the confidence that it would be Republicans who would suffer the consequences. 
  
 In the meantime, as the debt-ceiling fight heats up, they said Obama would ramp up the rhetoric and use the bully pulpit to drive home that point. In addition, one former senior official said Obama has to get the business community and Wall Street to say, “What the f--- is happening here?” 
  
 “As people realize what this will do to the stock market, they’ll ask Boehner and the Tea Party, ‘Is this what you really want?’” the official added. 
  
 “The more he can remain a bit above the fray and say, ‘I’m not going to get on your level’, the better. ” 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ||||| Visibly angry and at times raising their voices, House Democrats slammed Republicans for sending Washington into shutdown mode. 
  
 A last-minute move by the House GOP to seek a conference with the Senate on a continuing resolution ensured that the government shut down early Tuesday. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset John Larson's screaming rant on House floor Van Hollen: Boehner refused budget conference 
  
 “What the speaker is doing is doubling and tripling down [on] a path that it was always intended to take us to shutting down government,” Pelosi said. “They have wiggled this way and that to keep being very resourceful to come up with ways to shut down government. Because as [Senate Majority Leader] Harry Reid said, they don’t believe in government. They’re anti-government idealoges.” 
  
 (POLITICO's full government shutdown coverage) 
  
 Pelosi said it wasn’t just about Obamacare. 
  
 “This is bigger than the Affordable Care Act,” she said. “This is their way of saying we’re going to have a new order here.” 
  
 She referred to a quote by George Washington, in which he warned against a political party at war with its country. 
  
 “This is a proxy fight for really the debate on the extent of government and that has been a debate in the history of our country,” Pelosi said. “But to say no government, that’s what President Washington cautioned against.” 
  
 Pelosi said she’s still willing to work with others. 
  
 “This is about Congress doing its job,” Pelosi said. “What I said to the president and what I said to the speaker and I’ve said to the chamber, we extend a hand of friendship.” 
  
 Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), the vice chair of the Democratic caucus, voice got louder as he spoke, asking first, “Is anyone surprised? This has been their plan all along.” 
  
 “The American taxpayers continue to pay taxes to this country and they’re going to get less for it,” Crowley shouted. “It’s outragous that we would play these types of games with the American people. It’s about the health and safety of our country and the Republican caucus is letting this country down.” 
  
 Pelosi lashed out at one point when a reporter asked whether she could support a measure that would eliminate federal contributions for lawmakers and congressional staffers for health insurance, members and other political appointees who are moved into the health care exchanges. 
  
 “No,” Pelosi said shaking her head. Then she interrupted Hoyer, who called the issue of contributions “a distraction, not real” instead of talking about funding government. 
  
 “You know what else?” Pelosi said. “They’re fakers. They want that to not prevail because it harms them but they want us to vote against it over and over again.” 
  
 Hoyer launched into a tirade about problems with the Republican caucus. He pointed to former Speaker Newt Gingrich, who oversaw the last government shutdown. Gingrich cautioned his “perfectionist caucus” that compromise was needed. 
  
 “Newt Gingrich was right then,” Hoyer said. “John Bohner ought to follow his advice now.” 
  
 Pelosi then interjected, “No, his advice now is not so good.” ||||| President Obama again reprimanded House Republicans as a government shutdown looms in the immediate future, saying they are trying to use the shutdown to "extract a ransom." (The Washington Post) 
  
 President Obama again reprimanded House Republicans as a government shutdown looms in the immediate future, saying they are trying to use the shutdown to "extract a ransom." (The Washington Post) 
  
 Even before much of the federal government shut down at midnight Monday, the players were already staking out their positions in the battle to come: the fight over who was at fault. 
  
 President Obama argued that Republicans were to blame, for using a budget bill as a means of extortion to roll back health-care reform. No, the GOP shot back, it was Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.) who were responsible, for refusing to negotiate. 
  
 The heated back-and-forth reflected a recognition by both sides of the importance of winning the messaging war after the first government shutdown in 17 years. This is not just a typical partisan spat — the outcome could determine which party has momentum heading into coming fights over issues such as the debt ceiling and immigration law, as well as next year’s congressional elections. 
  
 Right now, the challenge is steepest for the GOP, which faces a hardening public perception that it is primarily to blame for setting the crisis in motion. 
  
 A Washington Post-ABC News poll released Monday showed that a fed-up public disapproves most of all of congressional Republicans, who have sought to use a short-term budget bill to defund or delay Obama’s signature health-care law. 
  
 1 of 26 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × Teetering on the brink of a government shutdown View Photos The Senate rejected House amendments to a short-term spending bill Monday, moving the U.S. government closer to its first shutdown in nearly two decades. Caption With no agreement on a funding bill in sight, Republicans and Democrats continue to spar on Capitol Hill, while federal workers sit at home and the American public watches as an even more critical deadline on raising the federal debt limit nears. Oct. 8, 2013 House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) talks with reporters after meeting with the House Republican caucus on the eighth day of the government shutdown. House Republican leaders pressed demands for negotiations with Senate Democrats and President Obama over bills to fund the government and raise the federal debt limit, but they would not say what they are seeking in those negotiations. Melina Mara/The Washington Post Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue. 
  
 Twenty-six percent of Americans approve of how congressional Republicans have handled the budget negotiations, while 34 percent approve of the efforts of Democratic lawmakers and 41 percent approve of Obama’s handling of the situation. 
  
 The poll, conducted Wednesday through Sunday, found that the GOP’s standing was undermined by its weakness among independents, just one in five of whom approve of its handling of the budget standoff. 
  
 GOP seeks to turn tables 
  
 Republicans scrambled Monday to turn the tables, lobbing a series of arguments about why Democrats were to blame. 
  
 They started the day arguing that the Senate was not moving fast enough to consider a measure the House passed early Sunday that paired stopgap funding of the government with a one-year delay of the health-care law. Once the Senate rejected that bill, GOP leaders accused Democrats of protecting the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, at the expense of keeping the government running. 
  
 By Monday evening, they appeared to settle on the argument that Democrats were at fault for failing to compromise. 
  
 “I just think it’s outrageous that Harry Reid will not sit down and negotiate about something that’s troubling to a lot of Americans, and that’s the implementation of the new health-care law,” Rep. Patrick J. Tiberi (R-Ohio), a close ally of House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio), told reporters. 
  
 During a speech on the Senate floor, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) accused Obama of being “absolutely allergic to doing his job.” 
  
 “We know the president has been eager to negotiate with the president of Iran about a very serious issue, Iran’s nuclear aspirations, but he won’t talk to the speaker of the House of Representatives or the Republican leader of the U.S. Senate,” Cornyn said. 
  
 Republican leaders are all too aware of how they came to be seen as the losers during the last government shutdown, in the winter of 1995 and 1996. At the time, the Clinton administration argued that House Speaker Newt Gingrich (Ga.) and his Republican caucus were too extreme. 
  
 “We just repeated that over and over again until it sunk in,” said Democratic strategist Mike McCurry, who was White House press secretary at the time. 
  
 Late Monday afternoon, Obama struck a similar tone, excoriating GOP lawmakers in remarks at the White House. 
  
 “Right now, House Republicans continue to tie funding of the government to ideological demands like limiting a woman’s access to contraception or delaying the Affordable Care Act, all to save face after making some impossible promises to the extreme right wing of their party,” Obama said. 
  
 He added, “You don’t get to extract a ransom for doing your job, for doing what you’re supposed to be doing anyway, or just because there’s a law there that you don’t like.” 
  
 Reid echoed that theme, placing responsibility on Boehner’s shoulders. “It will be a Republican government shutdown — that’s pure and simple,” Reid said before the midnight deadline. 
  
 Long-term impact 
  
 John Feehery, who ran the communications operation under J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) when he was House speaker, acknowledged that the GOP could be hurt in the short term. But he said the impact in next year’s midterm elections would be negligible because most House Republicans represent safe, solidly red districts. 
  
 “I don’t think anyone’s going to lose their seat because they stood up to Barack Obama,” Feehery said. 
  
 Democrats could also end up sharing some of the blame, he said, because they control the Senate and the White House. 
  
 Glen Bolger, a leading Republican pollster, said in a memo Monday that the party should tell the public that it effectively offered a compromise by backing down from plans to “kill Obamacare” to merely “delaying it a year.” 
  
 “That’s a pretty big move and is worthy of negotiation, not sneering rejection,” he wrote. “Obama’s refusal to negotiate and compromise needs to be hammered home. The press won’t cover it unless we say it.” 
  
 Many GOP lawmakers quickly adopted that argument. 
  
 Rep. Marlin A. Stutzman (R-Ind.) told reporters Monday that “the only person who’s not negotiating” was Reid. 
  
 “He doesn’t want to deal with our debt. He doesn’t want to deal with our deficit,” Stutzman said. “When we have must-pass bills, that’s the time we have to force something to happen.” 
  
 Democrats fired back that the impasse was the fault of hard-line conservatives. 
  
 “Because tea party Republicans didn’t get their way, they have decided to take their ball and go home,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio). 
  
 GOP pollster David Winston, who advises the House Republican leadership, said it will be hard for either party to emerge unscathed. 
  
 “A government shutdown is the moral equivalent of 52-card pickup, so it’s going to be bad for everybody,” Winston said. “Ultimately, people elect folks to govern, and when you have a shutdown, you don’t have governing.” |||||