A mere three days before the payroll comes due — payroll that Frank McCourt can’t meet — the Dodgers have filed for bankruptcy, reports Richard Sandomir. With that, the legal game begins. 
  
 Obviously the situation is fluid, and more details will stream in as the morning and day progresses, but for the time being, this could buy McCourt some time. Why? because a bankruptcy filing puts a halt on all legal action with respect to the bankruptcy estate (i.e. the Dodgers). McCourt will certainly argue that this will prevent a takeover from Major League Baseball, though the court may decide differently when it gets a chance to weigh in, likely in the next few days. 
  
 The problem for McCourt is that the kind of bankruptcy the Dodgers have certainly filed is designed to reorganize the financial house. Frank McCourt, however, does not have a plan available to him to do such a thing or else he would have already done it. The filing isn’t yet circulating (UPDATE: here it is) but my guess is that he’s going to ask the court to order that the Fox TV deal be executed — assuming Fox wants to still do it, which it has been reported it may not — thereby providing funding. 
  
 The problem with that, of course, is that the bankruptcy court won’t approve of anything that is not seen as in the best interests of the Dodgers the Dodgers’ creditors,* it’s obvious that Major League Baseball and others would come in and make a strong case that the Fox deal is not the best deal they could make. 
  
 If McCourt can do no better, the court may very well order a sale of the team. Perhaps auctioning it off, Texas Rangers-style. Which, by the way, would also put Major League Baseball in the same position it was in with respect to the Rangers: less-able to control who owns the team than it would otherwise be. Mark Cuban bid on the Rangers, after all. If his or some other non-chosen person’s money looked green to the bankruptcy court in such a scenario, Bud Selig would be hard-pressed to stop them from participating in a team auction. 
  
 But let us not get ahead of ourselves. For now, we simply have Frank McCourt where he was inevitably headed: bankruptcy court. And some time has been bought. A little anyway. The end game for McCourt, however, doesn’t look all that better than it did before. 
  
 *As always, remember that I am kind of a moron, at least as far as lawyers go, when it comes to bankruptcy. We have a lot of people familiar with bankruptcy law who hang out in the comments, however, so by all means, explore them a bit if the subject interests you. I’ll do my best to update with better information when I screw up. ||||| SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — Five world championships since bailing from Brooklyn nearly 54 years ago. Nine pennants. Several Hall of Famers. Six Cy Young winners. Four National League MVPs. Dodger Dogs. Vin Scully. 
  
 Now, one bankruptcy. 
  
 After struggling to meet financial obligations while its owners wrestle with an ugly divorce, the Los Angeles Dodgers, one of the most storied teams in professional sports, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection Monday. 
  
 Click to Play Dodgers can’t dodge bankruptcy Los Angeles Dodgers, beset by financial troubles and engaged in a battle with Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig, filed for bankruptcy protection. Lee Hawkins talks to sports writer Matthew Futterman. Photo: AP 
  
 Dodgers owner Frank McCourt, in an effort to keep from losing the franchise and just three days before payroll comes due, blamed the filing on Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig’s refusal to approve a $3 billion, 17-year broadcasting deal with Fox. 
  
 “He’s turned his back on the Dodgers, treated us differently and forced us to the point we find ourselves in today,” McCourt said. “I simply cannot allow the commissioner to knowingly and intentionally be in a position to expose the Dodgers to financial risk any longer.” 
  
 Late Monday, Selig issued a statement reiterating that McCourt‘s actions have diverted club assets for his personal needs, and that any solution to the club‘s troubles must not be to the long-term detriment of the Dodgers or to baseball in general. 
  
 “To date, the ideas and proposals that I have been asked to consider have not been consistent with the best interests of baseball,” Selig’s statement said. “The action taken today by Mr. McCourt does nothing but inflict further harm to this historic franchise.” 
  
 In April, MLB took over daily operations of the business, citing concerns about the team’s finances and operations. 
  
 Under the terms of the bankruptcy, the Dodgers received a commitment for $150 million in debtor-in-possession financing to allow it to meet its obligations and said there would be no disruption in day-to-day business. 
  
 The filing in U.S. bankruptcy court in Wilmington, Del., shows assets of between $500 million and $1 billion and liabilities in a range of $100 million and $500 million. 
  
  
  
 Reuters 
  
 “The team is entering the bankruptcy case with enough committed financing to meet all of its short-term expenses and to successful reorganize,” bankruptcy attorney Bruce Bennett said. “The media rights will, one way or another, generate enough value to facilitate a reorganization.” 
  
 Selig a week ago turned down the Dodgers’ proposed rights deal with Fox, owned by News Corp. /quotes/zigman/94823/quotes/nls/nws NWS -1.73% /quotes/zigman/94858/quotes/nls/nwsa NWSA -2.66% , which also owns MarketWatch, the publisher of this report. 
  
 Topping the list of creditors, according to the bankruptcy papers, is former outfielder Manny Ramirez, who is still owed $21 million. Also high on the list are current players pitcher Hiroki Kuroda and shortstop Rafael Furcal. 
  
 The Dodgers’ trip into bankruptcy follows other filings in recent years from the Texas Rangers and the Chicago Cubs — though the latter, with no objections from creditors, was more of a technical move by ownership. 
  
 “This is another interesting contest of baseball versus the courts, similar to the bankruptcy last year of the Texas Rangers,” said bankruptcy attorney Anthony Michael Sabino. “Clearly, the main point is that McCourt will use the bankruptcy filing to get leverage over Commissioner Selig and regain some control over his own ball club.” 
  
 The bitter McCourt divorce appears to be nearing a conclusion after the two sides reached a resolution earlier this month. The high-profile case has brought to light details of the couple’s lavish spending and lifestyle, including revelations that they had taken out more than $100 million in loans from Dodgers-related businesses. 
  
 The Dodgers are currently mired near the bottom of the National League West, trailing the World Champion San Francisco Giants by nine and a half games. 
  
 Shawn Langlois is a reporter for MarketWatch in San Francisco. |||||