Adorable Hollywood couple Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield have discovered the best possible way to deal with the paparazzi that have become a constant presence in their lives: Use them to promote charitable organizations. 
  
 Garfield and Stone first held up signs promoting kids' cancer charities back in 2012, and it worked so well that they did it again in New York City yesterday morning. 
  
 "Good morning! We were eating and saw a group of guys with cameras outside. And so we thought, lets try this again. We dont need the attention, but these wonderful organizations do," Stone wrote, with an arrow pointing toward Garfield's card, which listed four charities. 
  
 "Here's to the stuff that matters!" he wrote. 
  
 In addition to Gilda's Club and Worldwide Orphans, the two organizations they promoted during their first stunt, the Amazing Spider-Man stars listed Youth Mentoring Connection and the very controversial autism science foundation Autism Speaks. 
  
 But whether or not you agree with the cute couple's choice of charities, you've got to appreciate that Stone and Garfield have figured out how to make the paparazzi work for them. 
  
 [H/T Teen Vogue, Photo: SplashNews] ||||| Welcome to Our New Site 
  
 About two years ago, we refocused our mission to better serve you. Now we’ve upgraded our website to better support you AND connect the autism community through a streamlined digital experience... ||||| So, umm, what will it take to get an invite for next time? 
  
 Just when we thought Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield couldn't possibly be any more awesome, they proved us wrong once again. This dynamic duo may have starred in Spider-Man together, but apparently they don't need all that lights-camera-action business to get them into superhero-mode. Instead they just need some paparazzi (good news: They're never in short supply when you're a famous couple!) and some cleverness. 
  
 This isn't the first time the couple has used their fame to make a point. In 2012, they wrote signs about a group that supports people living with cancer and held them up for the photogs to see, and you guessed it—the pictures went viral. Today they decided to write another message to the world, covering up as much of their faces as they could so their words could be the main focus. "Good morning! We were eating and saw a group of guys with cameras outside. And so we thought, lets try this again. We dont need the attention, but these wonderful organizations do," Emma's card read, with an arrow pointing to her boyfriend's paper. Andrew's continued with the web addresses fans can check out to help make a difference, adding "Heres to the stuff that matters. Have a great day!" at the end. 
  
 We can't say we've ever made that big of an impact in the world by lunchtime, but we're pretty impressed that one of America's favorite on-screen and off-screen couples isn't afraid to stand up for what they believe in. The message they scribbled out on their papers probably only took a few minutes, but we have a feeling their efforts are going to last much, much longer. (BRB, pretending our relationships are even half as cool as theirs.) 
  
 Want to visit the websites Emma and Andrew are spreading awareness about? Take a look below, then tell us what you think of their bold efforts in the comments! 
  
 Youth Mentoring Collection: A program that matches at-risk youth with adult mentors. 
  
 Autism Speaks: The world's leading autism science and advocacy organization. 
  
 Worldwide Orphans: An organization that transforms the lives of orphaned children and helps them grow into healthy and independent adults. 
  
 Gilda's Club NYC: A place where men, women, and children living with cancer can come together for support. 
  
 Rock on, Emma and Andrew! |||||