Fivemiletown Creamery had suffered large losses when a majority of shareholders in the farmer-owned co-operative voted to sell the business to Glanbia Ingredients Ireland.
The company only wanted the farmers' milk supply, and in April 2014 announced cheese-making would cease and the factory would close.
It marked the end of more than a century of milk processing in the Clogher Valley.
The workers began a 30-day consultation on the terms of their redundancy when Dale Farm stepped in to take over the production of the speciality cheeses.
The decision meant about half the jobs in Fivemiletown were saved, with some of those involved in cheddar production offered jobs at Dale Farm's factory in Cookstown.
Dale Farm chief executive David Dobbin said Fivemiletown had good products and a good brand but "didn't have the critical mass for investment to succeed in what is an increasingly competitive market".
"We'd always regarded enviously the products and brand that the co-op had and we were delighted to be able to get involved and rescue the business," he said.
Supermarket sales
At the time of the takeover, Fivemiletown had already announced its closure which meant it lost many of its sales to supermarket customers.
Since then Dale Farm has been winning back those customers, and has added its skills in sales and marketing to the craft skills of the cheese makers.
It has proved a recipe for success as Fivemiletown's products have scooped top industry awards.
They include three gold stars for its Ballyoak smoked cheese at the 2015 Great Taste Awards, and a gold medal at the Nantwich International Cheese Awards.
It has also won new customers and its cheeses are now being stocked for the first time in Carrefour in Europe, as well as in Hong Kong and the United States.
Fivemiletown might not be as famous as France when it comes to producing Brie, but, according to Mr Dobbin, they have a "product that can take on the best and succeed".
For workers including master cheesemaker Ian McIntosh, the mood of despair has been replaced by a mood of optimism.
"We're still making the cheese, we're still winning awards on a regular basis, it's a lot more positive than it was 18 months ago."
"You've got a product here that's on your doorstep, winning awards, good quality, why would you want to go to a French company? We're beating them in some of the award ceremonies so the quality is here!"