Having been among the 76 prisoners of war to have successfully broken out of Stalag Luft III, only to be recaptured three days later, he was able to escape execution, thanks to his illustrious surname. 
  
 The very thought that he might be related to the wartime prime minister was enough to give the Nazis second thoughts about including Mr Churchill among the 50 recaptured airmen who were shot as punishment for their involvement in what is now known as the “Great Escape”. 
  
 As the years have passed, this select group of men who took part in the breakout and survived the reprisals have dwindled to such an extent that Mr Churchill and a fellow escapee Paul Royle, an Australian, are now the only living link to the event. 
  
 Ahead of this week’s 70th anniversary of the breakout, Mr Churchill, 94, spoke of his memories of the escape, his dramatic capture and the tragic aftermath. He also disclosed how – despite its cost in human lives – he believes it was a worthwhile venture. 
  
 The original plan for the breakout, later immortalised in the 1963 film The Great Escape, had been to have 200 airmen crawl out of a tunnel under the fence at night, kitted out with a variety of disguises, forged documents, plausible stories for inquisitive Germans, and pre-planned routes for escaping the Third Reich. 
  
 Places had been allocated to inmates in three categories: German speakers and experienced escapers; those who had contributed the most to the plan; and the remainder, who were drawn by lots. Mr Churchill, a squadron leader, was in the second group, having been a digger who played a leading role in constructing the tunnel. 
  
 He had no particular language skills, so had been given papers to allow him to pose as a Romanian. Along with his escape partner, Gordon Kidder, he learnt several Romanian phrases, to allow them to pass themselves off to non-native speakers. 
  
 “I wouldn’t say we were good Romanian speakers, but we had good knowledge of it. The theory being that we were unlikely to run into any Romanians, or have the Germans, if we were stopped or interrogated, produce a Romanian at short notice,” he recalled. 
  
 However, his plans were jeopardised before the day of the escape had even dawned. A fortnight earlier, suspecting that an escape plot was under way, the Germans attempted to disrupt it with a sudden transfer of inmates out of the camp. 
  
 The move caused the Escape Committee – headed by Squadron Leader Roger Bushell, or Big X – to rethink the plans and suggest that Kidder, who also spoke Spanish, instead go with Tom Kirby-Green, whose partner – with whom he was to pose as Spaniards – had been moved. 
  
 Mr Churchill, who had been a bomber pilot, was to be left to go alone. But before the escape day, he teamed up with Bob Nelson, a squadron leader and an engineer, who had designed the ventilation used in the tunnels. Nelson’s alter ego was that of a Swede. 
  
 “We had a quiet laugh about that. The Romanian and the Swede flogging through the snow of the forests of Silesia,” Mr Churchill said. 
  
 The pair crawled out of the end of the tunnel in the early hours of March 25th 1944 after around 50 had already escaped. 
  
 Along with many escapers, they planned to head to Czechoslovakia, around 50 miles from the camp, where they reckoned they were more likely to be assisted by locals. 
  
 They were to go by foot and headed deep into the forest surrounding the camp. They skirted around the nearby town of Sagan – now Zagan, in Poland – through thick undergrowth and snow that was 1ft deep. 
  
 During the day, the snow thawed, meaning that the pair – who were keen to avoid bridges and roads – had to wade across a succession of deep, fast flowing icy streams. 
  
 They rested during the day, on makeshift beds of fir branches, before carrying on at night. 
  
 They continued over the course of two nights, the conditions becoming increasingly harsh as they began to ascend higher ground. 
  
 At the end of the second night, and suffering increasingly from exposure, they took the risk of hiding in a hay loft. 
  
 “It became clear we weren’t going to be getting far so we decided we would get into a barn out of the weather and hide away until the hue and cry had died down,” Mr Churchill said. 
  
 They concealed themselves in the most remote corner and stayed there for the day. They had food, but lacked clean water, so that night crept into a nearby village and tried to use an old pump. It made a loud shrieking noise, which caused a dog to bark, forcing them to hurry off. 
  
 They returned to the hay loft, and it was there, in the morning, that their short-lived freedom ended. 
  
 Around 20 more men had escaped from the camp after Mr Churchill and Mr Nelson, before a guard had discovered the tunnel and raised the alarm. 
  
 To catch the prisoners, the Germans had given an order for all barns within 100 miles of Sagan to be searched. 
  
 Acting an this instruction, a group of local farmers had headed to the hay loft and begun to empty it. 
  
 Mr Churchill recalled: “They removed all the hay gradually and when they got into the far corner, the pitch forks being dangerously close, they found us.” 
  
 The pair were taken to Görlitz where most of the recaptured escapees were being rounded up. 
  
 Furious at the escape, Adolf Hitler had given personal orders for reprisal killings and a figure of 50 was picked. 
  
 So, in small groups, men were taken from the prison to their fate. “One guessed what was going on,” Mr Churchill said. “If it had been Luftwaffe people, one would have thought they were being taken away to another camp. 
  
 “But when you’ve got heavy men in leather coats with Gestapo type motor cars in the courtyard, you’ve got a fair idea. At least you are fearful of it. 
  
 “Parties of people were taken away and you knew who was going, because we were packed six or seven men in a single person cell. We were given next to nothing to eat, perhaps swede swill once a day. So we were getting thinner. But even so there wasn’t much space.” 
  
 Mr Churchill’s descriptions of the Germans involved was later used in the RAF Police investigation of the murders. 
  
 Dick Churchill 
  
 Eventually, the figure of 50 was reached – with Kidder and Kirby-Green among them – and Mr Churchill returned to Stalag Luft III. 
  
 The task of identifying the 50 to kill had been given to General Arthur Nebe – later killed for his part in the plot to kill the Fuhrer – with a caution that any who could be of future use to the Third Reich should be spared. 
  
 As more and more of the men were taken away, it became clear to Mr Churchill – who always refused to say whether or not he was related to Winston – that he was being spared on this basis, with the Nazis feeling he could later be used as a hostage, or go-between. 
  
 “I think it was my name. I’m pretty certain. I’m not related to Churchill, to my knowledge. But they thought I might be, and went further than thinking it. Bob Nelson reckoned Nelson and Churchill had a good ring to it, and they would hang on to us.” 
  
 The Germans interest in Churchill did not end there, and about five months after his return to camp he was summoned to another interrogation, ostensibly on the grounds that his records had been lost, and once more quizzed on his links to the prime minister. 
  
 As when he had first entered captivity, he refused to answer all questions. Mr Churchill, from Crediton, Devon, had been a prisoner of war since September 1940 when he had been forced to bail out over the Netherlands, while on his 26 operational mission, after his 144 Squadron Hampden bomber was attacked by night fighters. 
  
 Initially, he was taken to Dulag Luft, a transit camp near to Frankfurt, before moving to Stalag Luft I, near Barth, on the Baltic coast, and then Stalag Luft III, which was near to Sagan, now Zagan, in Poland. 
  
 From the very start, he had been an escape enthusiast and was involved in the digging of 72 tunnels. “I had been digging tunnels since 1941, but this was the first time I got out the other end.” 
  
 It wasn’t long after the Great Escape was first envisaged by the escape committee that Mr Churchill found himself “up to my neck in it.” 
  
 The scope was unlike anything seen before. Construction began on three tunnels in the camp’s north compound: “Tom” from a corner of a hall in one of the buildings; “Dick”, in a drain sump in one of the washrooms; “Harry”, under a stove. 
  
 More than 600 prisoners were involved in their construction, with the tunnels dug at a depth of around 30ft. 
  
 While diggers like Mr Churchill, a section leader, operated below ground, others were involved in the equally crucial task of dispersing the earth about the camp. 
  
 The sandy walls of the tunnels were shored up with pieces of wood scavenged from all over the camp. After the escape, the Germans found that, among other items, 4,000 bed boards had gone missing, as well as the complete disappearance of 90 double bunk beds, 635 mattresses, 192 bed covers, 161 pillow cases, 52 20-man tables, 10 single tables, 34 chairs, 76 benches and 1,212 bed bolsters. 
  
 During construction, one tunnel – “Tom” – was discovered by the Germans while another – “Dick” – was used for storage. In the event, for all the effort, only three airmen managed a “home run” from the breakout from Harry, getting all the way back to Britain. 
  
 In the years since, some – including some who took part – have questioned whether the escape was worthwhile, in terms of the subsequent cost in human lives. 
  
 But Mr Churchill, who later took part in the Long March, when PoWs were forced to walk through bitter winter conditions ahead of the advancing Russians, has no such doubts. 
  
 “It was a worthwhile venture. The chances of the average prisoner getting out of a prison camp in Germany by himself in the last war was really quite slim. 
  
 “So if you got some people who were so desperate, they were prepared to have a go at anything. 
  
 “If you are a POW long enough, other factors come into play. You could become a dope, and sit out war. Or you try to do something that’s likely to get you out and give you a chance of getting home – after all, three did get home. 
  
 “If nothing else, you are doing something towards the target of getting out and getting back to what you were doing before, whether it’s flying fighters or dropping bombs. 
  
 “It is not amusing to be four, five, six, seven, eight men in room with all the other lacks of amusement. 
  
 “When you are 30ft underground and have something to so, it is relatively quiet. You are hoping and thinking that you’re going to be lucky. It gives you a purpose.” 
  
 In Mr Churchill’s case, his luck was to play a part after he was recaptured. ||||| Image caption Some 50 serving RAF personnel each held a photo of one of the men killed 
  
 Hundreds of people have gathered in Zagan, Poland, to remember the allied prisoners of war who died in The Great Escape of World War Two. 
  
 Seventy years ago, 76 servicemen fled from the German Stalag Luft III camp through a 336ft (102m) long tunnel. 
  
 Only three reached safety. Of the 73 recaptured, 50 were shot. 
  
 Veterans joined family members from around the world to lay wreaths at the exit of the "Harry" tunnel in the first formal act of remembrance for the dead. 
  
 Some 50 serving RAF personnel each held a photo of one of the 50 dead at the ceremony in the forest above where the tunnel had been dug by prisoners of war. 
  
 A small number of surviving former prisoners of the camp were among those who paid their respects. 
  
 Image caption Serving personnel joined veterans to lay wreaths 
  
 Image caption The tunnels were dug to a depth of 28ft (8.5m) 
  
 BBC correspondent Robert Hall said the ceremony was all about those who had paid the ultimate sacrifice in 1944 for that act of defiance. 
  
 He said that, while the number of eyewitnesses was dwindling, the fascination with this tale of endeavour and sacrifice still endured. 
  
 Analysis On a forest track 50 members of today's RAF carried rain-streaked photographs of the men who had paid the ultimate price for an act of defiance. Among the service chiefs from Britain, Poland and the Commonwealth, Air Vice Marshal Stuart Atha told a crowd of several hundred that the escape plan was a way of fighting back from behind the wire. "These men were not prisoners of war, they were prisoners at war," he said. At the tunnel exit, bright flowers contrasted with the grey winter day, as veterans and families laid their tributes and remembered a story that will endure long after the last eyewitnesses have departed. 
  
 The RAF's Air Vice Marshal Stuart Atha told those gathered that The Great Escape was "an extraordinary chapter" in the history of the allied air forces "written by men with great courage and character". 
  
 Those who escaped were "an exceptional band of airmen whose bravery, ingenuity and resilient spirit set an example for all time", he added. 
  
 "When first captured, they did not accept that for them the war was over. 
  
 "Far from it, they were not prisoners of war - they were prisoners at war. 
  
 "And through their activities, they opened another front that distracted and diluted enemy forces and demonstrated that no fence, no Stalag Luft, could contain allied airmen." 
  
 British ambassador to Poland Robin Barnett and former prisoner of war Charles Clarke were among others who spoke. 
  
 Daring bid 
  
 On Tuesday, 50 RAF service personnel will begin a four-day, 105-mile (170km) march from Zagan to a cemetery at Poznan where the shot men are buried. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Air Commodore Charles Clarke was a prisoner at the German camp immortalised in The Great Escape 
  
 They will lay wreaths at the graves of the prisoners in a service on Friday. 
  
 Stalag Luft III, which was 100 miles south-east of Berlin on the Polish border, held about 10,000 prisoners at the height of its occupation. 
  
 Members of the RAF and other allied forces were among prisoners at the camp. 
  
 The Great Escape Image copyright Crown Copyright Image caption The exploits of the airmen were made famous in the film, The Great Escape Stalag Luft III opened in spring 1942 
  
 Air forces personnel only 
  
 At maximum it held 10,000 PoWs, covered 59 acres, with five miles of perimeter fencing 
  
 Wooden Horse escape on the night of 29/30 October 1943 
  
 Great Escape on 24-25 March 1944 
  
 Of three tunnels, only one, Harry, completed 
  
 Harry was 336 ft (102m) long, 28ft (8.5m) deep 
  
 Because of border changes, the location of the camp is now in Poland. 
  
 The daring bid for freedom was immortalised in the classic 1963 film The Great Escape, starring Steve McQueen, James Garner and Richard Attenborough. 
  
 An escape committee was formed at Stalag Luft III in spring 1943 and the escape plan hatched under the leadership of Squadron Leader Roger Bushell. 
  
 Three tunnels, codenamed Tom, Dick and Harry, were started in April 1943. 
  
 The tunnels were dug to a depth of 28ft (8.5m) and shored up with wooden boards from the prisoners' beds. 
  
 On the night of 24 March 1944, about 200 prisoners prepared to escape through Harry, a tunnel measuring over 300ft long, beneath Hut 104. 
  
 Only 76 were able to make their break for freedom using the tunnel. 
  
 Norwegian pilots Per Bergsland and Jens Muller, and Dutch pilot Bram van der Stok - who all died in the 1990s - made it to safety. 
  
 Of the 73 who were recaptured, 50 were subsequently shot by the Gestapo on Adolf Hitler's orders. 
  
 Hitler's 'rage' 
  
 British ex-serviceman Andrew Wiseman, who was in Zagan for the commemoration, arrived as a prisoner at Stalag Luft III shortly after The Great Escape. 
  
 The camp could not believe what the Germans had done to the 50 and there was shock, horror almost, and a great deal of sadness Ex-prisoner of war Andrew Wiseman 
  
 "When I arrived at the camp, the camp was in a state of shock, disbelief," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. 
  
 "Until the Great Escape, and the murder of the 50, the RAF prisoners of war were treated reasonably well by the Germans. 
  
 "But after The Great Escape, relations between us and the Germans changed. 
  
 "The camp could not believe what the Germans had done to the 50 and there was shock, horror almost, and a great deal of sadness." 
  
 German disbelief 
  
 According to the Daily Telegraph, Dick Churchill, 94, is the last British survivor among the 76 escapees. 
  
 Image copyright Getty Images Image caption RAF airmen were kept prisoner at Stalag Luft III 
  
 He and fellow escapee, Australian Paul Royle, are the only survivors, it says. 
  
 Mr Churchill, who says he was captured while hiding in a barn after heading towards Czechoslovakia, told the paper he was lucky not to have been shot. 
  
 "I think it was my name - I'm pretty certain. 
  
 "I'm not related to Churchill, to my knowledge. But they thought I might be." |||||