Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Kate and William have launched legal action against the publication of topless pictures of the duchess, Clarence House has said. 
  
 The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are hugely saddened over the "grotesque and unjustifiable invasion of privacy" by a magazine which published topless photos of Kate, a royal spokesman says. 
  
 French publication Closer printed the pictures of the duchess, taken during their private holiday in France. 
  
 The royals are now considering legal action over the case. 
  
 Closer's editor says the couple were "visible from the street" and the images are "not in the least shocking". 
  
 The BBC's Nicholas Witchell said that the royals were "incredulous that any magazine would have felt they had a justification in publishing these pictures". 
  
 "They could go to law or seek a remedy through the French court - that is a big step to take but that is clearly what is being considered now," he said. 
  
 Image caption French publication Closer printed the pictures of the duchess 
  
 "I have rarely heard quite such a level of publicly expressed anger that I have heard today reflecting William's feelings. 
  
 "He is absolutely determined to protect the privacy of his wife; he has always been very protective of her and that anger has mounted during the day." 
  
 Our correspondent said that the prince had a "look of absolute thunder" on his face as they left Kuala Lumpur - a stop on their nine-day tour of South East Asia - to travel to Sabah in north Borneo. 
  
 Kate, meanwhile, "looked composed and was smiling", he said. 
  
 Closer editor Laurence Pieau said: "These photos are not in the least shocking. They show a young woman sunbathing topless, like the millions of women you see on beaches." 
  
 She described the reaction as "a little disproportionate". 
  
 "What we saw in the pictures was a young couple that have just got married, who are in love, who are beautiful. She's a princess of the 21st Century," said Pieau. 
  
 "They [the couple] are on the terrace of a mansion in the south of France which is not far from a road along which cars pass without any problem. They are visible from the street." 
  
 The photos look blurry, the BBC's Paris bureau said. There are four pages of photos of the couple, with Kate topless in several. 
  
 "A red line has been crossed" according to palace officials. The gloves, it would seem, are off Luisa Baldini, Royal correspondent, BBC News Analysis: Royals and the media 
  
 On the magazine's website, it says the pictures are of the couple "like you have never seen them before. Gone are the fixed smiles and the demure dresses. On holiday Kate forgets everything." 
  
 The duke and duchess, who were staying at the French chateau of the Queen's nephew, Lord Linley, "have been hugely saddened to learn that a French publication and a photographer have invaded their privacy in such a grotesque and totally unjustifiable manner", a spokesman for Clarence House, the Prince of Wales's office, said. 
  
 "The incident is reminiscent of the worst excesses of the press and paparazzi during the life of Diana, Princess of Wales, and all the more upsetting to the duke and duchess for being so. 
  
 "Their Royal Highnesses had every expectation of privacy in the remote house. It is unthinkable that anyone should take such photographs, let alone publish them. 
  
 "Officials acting on behalf of their Royal Highnesses are consulting with lawyers to consider what options may be available to the duke and duchess." 
  
 The prime minister's official spokesman said: "The view from Downing Street is that they are entitled to their privacy." 
  
 The royal couple were told about the magazine's plan to publish the photos during breakfast in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on their tour to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. They are now on their way to north Borneo, where they are due to visit a rainforest. 
  
 Analysis In France they will tell you privacy laws that govern the press are much tighter than they are in the UK. It's only half of the truth. While the French are sniffy about the tabloid culture in Britain many celebrity magazines have been publishing these kind of pictures for years. France is the home of one of the oldest 'celebrity' magazines in the world - Paris Match. But these days there are raunchier titles, like Closer, who unashamedly indulge in the celebrity gossip. And they budget for the legal payouts which in this case are seemingly inevitable. But for editors the fine is worth the risk. Read more from Christian Fraser 
  
 It has emerged that British newspapers were offered photographs last week but turned them down. 
  
 The Sun's editor Dominic Mohan said the newspaper had no intention of breaching the couple's privacy by publishing what he described as "intrusive" pictures. 
  
 "The circumstances are very different to those relating to the photos of Prince Harry in Las Vegas. As we said at the time, he was at a party in a hotel suite with a large group of strangers and one of those present released a photograph into the public domain," he said. 
  
 The Sun was the only British newspaper to print the naked pictures of Prince Harry, defying a warning by Clarence House that they breached his privacy. 
  
 The Press Complaints Commission said it received hundreds of complaints from members of the public but did not act because it had not been contacted by representatives of the prince. 
  
 Lloyd Embley, editor of the Mirror and Sunday Mirror, said the papers were offered a set of pictures of the duchess in her bikini a week ago but, as with the pictures of Harry, they took the decision not to publish them. 
  
 In both cases they believed it would be a clear breach of the editors' code of practice involving breach of privacy. 
  
 Closer is not run by the same company as the British title; it is administered by Italian business Mondadori, owned by former president Silvio Berlusconi's holding company Fininvest. 
  
 A statement from the UK magazine said: "We were not offered any pictures of this nature and have no intention of publishing the photographs of the Duchess of Cambridge which have been published this morning." ||||| Un peu plus d’un an après leur mariage, le couple princier s’est offert un séjour en amoureux, loin du protocole, de l’étiquette dans une ambiance très Jardin d’Eden. Seuls au monde ou presque… Car Closer était là ! Découvrez en avant-première les photos que le monde entier commentera dans 24h. 
  
 Après les vacances olé-olé du Prince Harry à Vegas, découvrez les clichés très sensuels de Kate Middleton et de son mari le Prince William. Découvrez les clichés incroyables de la future reine d’Angleterre telle que vous ne l’avez jamais vue… et telle que vous ne la reverrez jamais ! 
  
 Découvrez en exclusivité demain dans Closer les photos que le monde n’attendait pas : la duchesse de Cambridge topless sur la terrasse d’une maison d’hôte dans le Lubéron ! OMG ! 
  
 Demain dans Closer 
  
 Qu’il est bon de se retrouver en tête-à-tête avec son mari, enfin débarrassée des soucis du quotidien, des révérences, de la pression médiatique. Pour leur seconde lune de miel, Kate et William ont choisi la Provence, pour un séjour romantique à souhait. Seuls au monde. Leur mot d’ordre : vacances j’oublie tout, la grisaille londonienne, et même le maillot de bain resté dans la valise de l’altesse… 
  
 Au Château d’Autet, Kate parfait son bronzage et enduit son corps de naïade d’une crème solaire spf 50 pendant que William pianote sur sa tablette. Et pour éviter les marques de bronzage, Kate a pensé à tout… et à enlever le maillot. 
  
 En photos : Un couple comme tant d’autres qui profite du soleil entre deux câlins… sauf que Kate est la future reine et que William est appelé à monter sur le trône. 
  
 Kate redouble d’inventivité et de sensualité pour titiller son pilote préféré. Un plouf dans la piscine et hop, un maillot de bain à faire sécher ! 
  
 Ne manquez pas ce numéro exceptionnel de Closer en vente vendredi. 
  
 Elodie Mandel ||||| Kate Middleton SUES MAGAZINE Over Topless Pics 
  
 Kate Middleton SUES France's Closer Magazine Over Topless Pics 
  
 Breaking News 
  
 andhave declared war on the French magazine that published naked photos of the future Queen of England -- filing a lawsuit today against the publication.A rep for St. James's Palace released a statement saying that "legal proceedings for breach of privacy have been commenced today in France" by the royal couple.So far, it's unclear what relief they are seeking.As we reported, the family had threatened legal action over the topless photos published today by France'smagazine, showing a topless Kate on vacation with Prince William recently.Now, they've made good on their word.Moments after the pic went public, the Royal Family issued a statement, claiming, "Their royal highnesses have been hugely saddened to learn that a French publication and a photographer have invaded their privacy in such a grotesque and totally unjustifiable manner."For the magazine's part -- Closer's editor Laurence Pieau has spoken out, calling the media "hypocritical" for condemning her decision to run the pictures.Story developing ... ||||| PIC: Kate Middleton in Headdress Echoes Iconic Princess Diana Photo 
  
 Royal grace under fire. 
  
 Friday probably wasn't the easiest day for the Duchess of Cambridge -- but she wasn't about to let the strain show. 
  
 Kate Middleton and Prince William pressed on with their Diamond Jubilee Royal Tour of Southeast Asia on Friday after learning that French tabloid magazine Closer had published topless photos of the Duchess, 30, during a recent vacation in France. 
  
 PHOTOS: Kate and Diana'a royal styles compared 
  
 With Prince William, 30, at her side, the Duchess arrived at the Asyakirin Mosque in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Friday morning in what was their first visit to any mosque in the world. 
  
 Kate Middleton and Prince William visit Assyakirin Mosque on September 14, 2012 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
  
 Credit: Chris Jackson/Getty 
  
 For the landmark moment, Kate wore an off-white Belulah dress, a custom veil, nude tights and her go-to LK Bennett heels, which she removed before entering the mosque itself. Looking especially radiant and serene in photos from the visit, the Duchess brought to mind one of the most iconic snaps of her late mother-in-law, Princess Diana -- who similarly donned a traditional headdress for a visit to the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Hospital in Lahore, Pakistan in June, 1996 (just one year before her tragic death in a car accident in Paris at age 36). 
  
 PHOTOS: Kate and Diana's weddings -- a side-by-side look 
  
 Diana's memory was invoked in the royal couple's official statement about the nude scandal. "The incident is reminiscent of the worst excesses of the press and paparazzi during the life of Diana, Princess of Wales, and all the more upsetting to the Duke and Duchess for being so," the statement read. 
  
 But that upset was not on display Friday morning. 
  
 "It's so peaceful in here," Middleton commented during their barefoot, 20-minute tour of the mosque. "It's all so impressive!" 
  
 "It was an honor to meet them," head division development manager Datin Faudziah Ibrahim said after the visit. 
  
 PHOTOS: Will and Kate have fun at the Olympics 
  
 "Catherine asked me so many questions that I struggle to even remember them all now. She really liked it when I spoke about how families come together during Ramadan," he continued. "She really liked that. She said family is very important." 
  
 As for her modest but stunning ensemble? "The Duchess looked beautiful and very appropriate in her outfit. It was a great choice." |||||