Media playback is not supported on this device
In an entertaining first-round tie, Halifax were good value for a replay and will perhaps feel unfortunate to have not advanced at the first attempt.
Captain Liam King spurned the best chance of the game during an end-to-end first half, firing over from just four yards following Tom Denton's knock-down.
Dagenham were far from their best. Sitting third in the National League, the Daggers' potent front three of Jordan Maguire-Drew, Corey Whitely and Oliver Hawkins were unable to click on a frustrating afternoon.
Maguire-Drew looked threatening from set pieces, testing Steven Drench on a number of occasions, as John Still's side searched in vain for a decisive breakthrough.
National League North representatives Halifax were grateful to Drench during the opening 45 minutes, denying Whitely from point-blank range twice.
Firstly the Shayman stopper was on hand to paw away the winger's goal-bound header before reacting instinctively to push Whitely's shot off target.
A real scrap emerged in the second half with both sides struggling to take control, meaning Dagenham will head north for a first-round replay on 15 November.
Report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Dagenham and Redbridge 0, FC Halifax Town 0.
Second Half ends, Dagenham and Redbridge 0, FC Halifax Town 0.
Attempt blocked. Tom Denton (FC Halifax Town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Attempt missed. Josh MacDonald (FC Halifax Town) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Andre Boucaud (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Alex Simmons (FC Halifax Town).
Attempt blocked. Liam King (FC Halifax Town) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Attempt saved. Corey Whitely (Dagenham and Redbridge) right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Substitution, Dagenham and Redbridge. Paul Benson replaces Luke Guttridge.
Scott Doe (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Tom Denton (FC Halifax Town).
Attempt missed. Dave Lynch (FC Halifax Town) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Foul by Matt Robinson (Dagenham and Redbridge).
Josh Wilde (FC Halifax Town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Substitution, FC Halifax Town. Jake Hibbs replaces Jordan Sinnott.
Attempt missed. Luke Guttridge (Dagenham and Redbridge) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is close, but misses to the right.
Substitution, Dagenham and Redbridge. Sam Ling replaces Jordan Maguire-Drew.
Joe Widdowson (Dagenham and Redbridge) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Joe Widdowson (Dagenham and Redbridge).
Alex Simmons (FC Halifax Town) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Matt Robinson (Dagenham and Redbridge).
Tom Denton (FC Halifax Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Liam King (FC Halifax Town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Andre Boucaud (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Liam King (FC Halifax Town).
Foul by Matt Robinson (Dagenham and Redbridge).
Tom Denton (FC Halifax Town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Kevin Roberts (FC Halifax Town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Corey Whitely (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Kevin Roberts (FC Halifax Town).
Attempt missed. Jordan Maguire-Drew (Dagenham and Redbridge) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt blocked. Scott Doe (Dagenham and Redbridge) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.
Attempt saved. Jordan Maguire-Drew (Dagenham and Redbridge) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Jordan Maguire-Drew (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Scott Garner (FC Halifax Town).
Corner,  Dagenham and Redbridge. Conceded by Josh Wilde.
Luke Guttridge (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Dave Lynch (FC Halifax Town).
Josh Staunton (Dagenham and Redbridge) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Tom Denton (FC Halifax Town).