NEW DELHI -- Five female activists working for an organization backed by a Christian missionary group were gang-raped at gunpoint in the eastern Indian state of Jharkhand this week, police said on Friday. The women were accompanied by four men and two nuns as they performed a street play to raise awareness of human trafficking in the Khunti district on Tuesday when at least six armed men attacked them. 
  
 They attackers beat the male members of the team and forced the five women into a car, took them to a nearby forest and raped them for three hours before releasing them, police officials have told CBS News. 
  
 "We have taken the statement of the victims," Homkar Amol Venukant, Deputy Inspector General of Police in Ranchi, the state capital of Jarkhand, told CBS News on Friday. The victims told officers that the attackers "filmed the act on their mobile phones," and threatened to publish the videos on the internet if the crime was reported. 
  
 The two nuns, who were part of the activists' team working to raise awareness of human trafficking, were not hurt, police told CBS News. 
  
 India's women revolt against a culture of rape 
  
 The attackers were reportedly agitated over the activists' entering the village without their permission. An anti-establishment self-rule movement, Pathalgadi, is popular in several tribal villages in the Indian state. Members don't recognize the authority of the local or national governments in their villages and have banned the entry of outsiders without permission. 
  
 Police had not made any arrests in the case as of Friday. 
  
 "We have detained some suspects and are questioning them," Venukant told CBS News. It was not yet clear whether the people in custody were members of the local Pathalgadi. "This is a very sensitive case, we won't be able to share their identities at this stage," he said. 
  
 "The investigation is on. We will look at all angles to ascertain who is behind this heinous crime," Superintendent of Police, Ashwini Kumar Sinha, told CBS News. 
  
 The victims worked for an NGO called Asha Kiran, which is supported by a local Christian missionary group. Like several other NGOs, Asha Kiran is active in Jharkhand, which is considered to be the capital of human trafficking in India. Hundreds of children and adults are trafficked in India for commercial sexual exploitation and forced labour, most of them from the region. 
  
 India has a distressing record of sexual violence against women. About 40,000 rape cases were reported in 2016, according to government data. Last month, two teen girls were set on fire after being raped in Jharkhand. 
  
 There has been renewed outrage amid a rash of new high-profile sexual assault cases in India, and women's safety is gaining resonance as a political issue ahead of general elections next year. ||||| Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jharkhand has been in the spotlight after three teenagers were raped and burnt alive 
  
 Five Indian anti-trafficking activists performing a street play were gang-raped at gunpoint in the eastern state of Jharkhand, police have confirmed. 
  
 The women were forced into cars and raped in a "secluded area", police told BBC Hindi. 
  
 Police say they are investigating the incident but have not made any arrests. 
  
 The women were working with a non-governmental organisation (NGO) to raise awareness about human trafficking in the remote Khunti district. 
  
 About 40,000 rape cases were reported in India in 2016. 
  
 Many cases, however, are believed to go unreported because of the stigma that is attached to rape and sexual assault. 
  
 What happened to the five women? 
  
 "After performing, they headed towards a local mission school," senior police official AV Homkar told BBC Hindi's Niraj Sinha. 
  
 "Around the same time, some armed people reached the school. They abducted five girls from their team and took them to a jungle and raped them. We have dedicated three teams of police to interrogate several people. 
  
 Another police official told BBC Hindi the five women were now safe under police protection, awaiting the results of medical tests. 
  
 Who might have been behind the attack? 
  
 Officials believe the rapists could be supporters of a group that that is extremely hostile to "outsiders" entering the region. 
  
 The group, which enjoys popular support among the district's tribal population, has even put up signs warning visitors about entering the area. 
  
 Scrutiny of sexual violence in India has grown since the 2012 gang rape and murder of a student on a Delhi bus. This latest incident comes as the country continues to reel from a string of recent attacks. 
  
 A shocking case of child rape in Kashmir made international headlines in April. 
  
 Jharkhand has also been in the spotlight recently after three teenage girls were raped and set on fire in separate incidents in May. ||||| At least five women working for an NGO have been abducted and gang-raped at gunpoint in eastern India's Jharkhand state, police have said. 
  
 "An FIR (First Information Report) and a statement in court has been lodged. We are trying to identify the criminals. Our probe is ongoing," Ashwini Kumar Sinha, superintendent of police in Khunti, told Al Jazeera. 
  
 "A team of street play artists had gone to perform in a school in Kochan, the remotest area of Khunti when some men came and threatened them. Nine men and women were abducted. Five women were raped while the men were beaten," he said. 
  
 The women were performing a play raising awareness of human trafficking in the Khunti district on Tuesday when armed men abducted them at gunpoint, it was reported on Friday. 
  
 Attackers filmed the assault and used the video to blackmail the women not to go to the police. 
  
 The women were working for Asha Kiran, an NGO supported by Christian missionaries, police officer Rajesh Prasad told AFP news agency. 
  
 "We have been questioning several people," Prasad told AFP. 
  
 Police rounded up some supporters of Pathalgadi, a self-rule movement associated with hostility to outsiders. 
  
 The National Women's Commission on Friday ordered state police to provide them with a report about the gang rapes. 
  
 Sister Julia George, project director at Asha Kiran in Ranchi, told Al Jazeera that men arrived at the scene on bikes and overpowered the NGO workers. 
  
 "They put them in the same vehicle by which the Asha Kiran group were travelling and drove some kilometres away from the place. Then they were raped," George said. 
  
 This is the latest high-profile sexual assault in India. 
  
 Three girls were raped and set on fire in India in one week in May, two of them in Jharkhand state. 
  
 In 2012, the fatal gang rape of a 23-year-old physiotherapy student on a moving bus in New Delhi sparked street protests. 
  
 In 2016, 39,000 rape cases were reported in the country. 
  
 Additional reporting by Zeenat Saberin in New Delhi |||||