Those who fell for the gag clause inserted into wifi terms and conditions committed to more than a month of community service 
  
 Do you read the terms and conditions? Probably not. No one does. And so, inevitably, 22,000 people have now found themselves legally bound to 1000 hours of community service, including, but not limited to, cleaning toilets at festivals, scraping chewing gum off the streets and “manually relieving sewer blockages”. 
  
 The (hopefully) joke clause was inserted in the terms and conditions of Manchester-based wifi company Purple for a period of two weeks, “to illustrate the lack of consumer awareness of what they are signing up to when they access free wifi”. The company operates wifi hotspots for a number of brands, including Legoland, Outback Steakhouse and Pizza Express. 
  
 Purple also offered a prize for anyone who actually read the terms and conditions, and flagged up the “community service clause”. Just one person claimed it. 
  
 It’s no surprise that people will agree to anything to get free wifi. In 2014, cybersecurity firm F-Secure ran a similar experiment in London, operating a wifi hotspot that anyone could use – in exchange for their firstborn child. The so-called “Herod clause” was clearly stated in the terms and conditions, and six people still signed up. Though it’s not clear how many of them simply dislike their eldest children. 
  
 F-Secure also pointed out that “while terms and conditions are legally binding – it is contrary to public policy to sell children in return for free services, so the clause would not be enforceable in a court of law”. 
  
 It remains unclear whether terms and conditions in general are actually applicable to the typical customer. While they are contracts, and usually considered legally binding as such, some have argued that the inability to negotiate them violates common law principles of fairness, leaving them void. 
  
 • I read all the small print on the internet and it made me want to die ||||| Let's be honest, how many of us really read the terms and conditions when we sign up for anything? Well, 22,000 people unwittingly signed up to carry out 1,000 hours of community service in exchange for free Wi-Fi. Oops! 
  
 Public Wi-Fi provider Purple added a spoof term to its T&Cs on its network of branded hotspots to illustrate the "lack of consumer awareness" of what people are signing up to when accessing free Wi-Fi portals. 
  
 In agreeing to the spoof T&Cs, people unwittingly agreed to a "community service clause" which signed them up to clean portaloos, hug stray cats, and paint snails' shells. Wow. 
  
 The user may be be required, at Purple’s discretion, to carry out 1,000 hours of community service. This may include the following. Cleansing local parks of animal waste. Providing hugs to stray cats and dogs. Manually relieving sewer blockages. Cleaning portable lavatories at local festivals and events. Painting snail shells to brighten up their existence. Scraping chewing gum off the streets. 
  
 Surprisingly, only one person during the two-week-long prank spotted the term. 
  
 The prank forms part of Purple's announcement that it's the first General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliant Wi-Fi provider, falling in line with the UK government's new legislation which comes into force in May 2018. The new GDPR laws will introduce a condition requiring "unambiguous consent" before users’ personal or behavioural data can be used for marketing purposes. 
  
 "Wi-Fi users need to read terms when they sign up to access a network. What are they agreeing to, how much data are they sharing, and what license are they giving to providers? Our experiment shows it’s all too easy to tick a box and consent to something unfair," says Gavin Wheeldon, CEO of Purple. 
  
 Thankfully, the company has no intention of forcing anyone to clean loos or paint snail shells. What a relief. |||||