The fine was later cancelled but Dave Hedley started a petition against the policy, to help other parents.
The issue was debated by MPs after the petition attracted 200,000 signatures.
Schools Minister Nick Gibb accepted there was confusion following a recent High Court victory against a fine.
Term-time holidays: What are the rules?
However, Mr Gibb said parents could still be fined for taking their children on holiday out of term-time - and confirmed the Department for Education would fund an appeal against the recent judgment.
"Although the government are disappointed with the High Court judgment on school attendance, we are clear that children's attendance at school is non-negotiable, and we will take the necessary steps to secure that principle," he said during the Westminster Hall debate.
"We managed to get away for a surprise break the week after the Easter holidays," said Mr Hedley, from Stapleford in Nottinghamshire.
"We had no way of informing the school apart from via email but it was the one week we had in between my wife's operations and her radiotherapy starting."
"As my wife was undertaking radiotherapy at the time I just found this utterly disgusting," he said.
"The more I looked into it the more I decided that something had to be done to end the process."
Steve Double, the Conservative MP for St Austell and Newquay, led the debate on Monday and said the policy is "draconian".
"We are discriminating against those on low incomes by saying that if they cannot afford the high prices charged during the school holidays, they do not deserve a family holiday," he said.
He said parents who work in tourism, and many public sector workers such as those in the NHS, are not allowed to take time off during school holidays.
He argued the policy "denies the value of a holiday to a child's development and education" and called for discretion to be put back in the hands of head teachers.
"Just last week I spoke to a primary school head teacher in my constituency and was surprised by what he said 'The best thing that could happen to some of the children in my school would be for their parents to take them on a week's holiday, even in term-time'," he said.
"I recognise that the High Court judgment has created uncertainty for parents, schools and local authorities," Mr Gibb said during Monday's debate.
"Given its importance, it is essential that the matter is clarified, which is why we decided to support Isle of Wight Council's request for permission to appeal to the Supreme Court, and why I wrote to all schools and local authorities in England to make it clear that the High Court judgment does not establish that a pupil's attendance above 90% is regarded as regular attendance."
Other MPs supported Mr Double's arguments.
Rosie Cooper, Labour MP for West Lancashire, said there is a "fundamental lack of transparency, fairness and consistency in how the fines are being applied".
Michelle Donelan, Conservative MP for Chippenham, said that the children who are restricted from taking time to go on holiday "tend to be socially deprived and from impoverished backgrounds".
Derek Thomas, Conservative MP for St Ives, said the policy has an adverse impact on NHS services.
"The population of areas such as Cornwall increases significantly during the summer holiday months, which places extra pressure on health services at the very time when medical staff are forced to take their holiday," he said.