The feet of children going through a Canadian zoo’s Penguin Plunge are less happy today. 
  
 Seven Humboldt penguins at the Calgary Zoo were found mysteriously dead in their back holding area Thursday morning, zoo officials said. 
  
 Animal care director Jamie Dorgan told the Daily News that the petite birds were found in a pool three feet deep, and that preliminary results show they drowned. 
  
 He said that the penguins, 8-months to 7-years-old and currently being held in a holding room during construction, did not have any known infections and that foul play is not expected at this point. 
  
 A luxury cruise to the Galápagos Islands pairs adventure, comfort 
  
 One current hypothesis is that something may have riled the Humboldts up overnight, and that some of them drowned when many of them jumped into the pool. 
  
 However, Dorgan said that his zoo has experience with penguins and that he has never seen anything like this in his life. 
  
 The zoo said that there have 15 other Humboldt penguins, as well as gentoo, king and rockhopper penguins. 
  
 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials list Humboldt penguins, native to Chile and Peru, as a threatened species. ||||| It's extremely rare for penguins to drown, but a panic response to loud noise could explain why seven of the aquatic birds died at the Calgary Zoo this week, says an expert at the University of Alberta. 
  
 "In the entire scientific literature, there's nine papers that describe drowning by penguins out of about 7,500 that describe penguins," said biology professor Colleen Cassady St. Clair. 
  
 "It's a pretty rare event and it seems they only do that when they get entangled in things or when they're intentionally drowned by predators like leopard seals, or when they're dragged by something." 
  
 Seven Humboldt penguins were found dead in a holding tank Thursday morning. Zookeepers last saw them at 4:15 p.m. Wednesday. 
  
 The birds had been in the holding area since Monday due to ongoing construction in the Penguin Plunge exhibit. 
  
 'Ultimate' herd mentality 
  
 Zoo officials have also suggested the penguins may have become panicked. 
  
 "They have the ultimate in herd mentality, so if something startles them and they start to run, they all tend to start running. They don't look around to figure out whether there's a reason to run, they just try to flee the area that other penguins seem to be trying to leave," Cassady St. Clair said. 
  
 "That's my guess as to what might have happened. What's known for seabirds generally is they have panic responses to loud noises. So if there had been a loud or unexpected noise, they might have tried to escape the area. They might have clambered over each to try to get to safety and the top penguins might have drowned the penguins underneath them." 
  
 The loss of seven penguins is devastating, says Jamie Dorgan, the Calgary Zoo's director of animal care. (Evelyne Asselin/CBC) 
  
 An investigation is ongoing, Jamie Dorgan, director of animal care at the Calgary Zoo, told the Calgary Eyeopener. 
  
 "They're marine birds that spend days and days out in the ocean. They're adapted to be in the water all the time, so we're very shocked this happened," he said. 
  
 "We don't know 100 per cent what happened and that's very frustrating for us. Everybody here is pretty shaken up by it." 
  
 There were 22 penguins in the Humboldt colony and Dorgan said the remaining birds are not showing signs of stress. They are being kept out of the pools overnight. 
  
 "That's our short-term solution, until we can figure out what happened," said Dorgan. ||||| Officials believe penguins were sent into panic at zoo which has seen several other accidents including an otter who died after becoming entangled in trousers 
  
 A Canadian zoo has launched an investigation into the deaths of seven penguins at the facility, which are believed to have drowned in a state of panic. 
  
  
  
 “It was obviously something we did not expect to find,” said Jamie Dorgan, the director of animal care for the Calgary Zoo. “It’s a very odd situation, very odd circumstances and nothing we’ve ever encountered before.” 
  
 The apparent drowning is the latest in a string of accidents and errors that have catapulted the zoo into the headlines in recent years. In February a 12-year-old otter died after becoming entangled in a pair of trousers that had been given to the otters as a gift by a zookeeper. The zoo said two staff members had been disciplined over the “unauthorized enrichment item”. 
  
  
  
 The deceased birds were Humboldt penguins which had been moved to a holding area earlier this week, after renovations on their habitat began. 
  
 Zookeepers checked in on the penguins on Wednesday afternoon. Early Thursday morning, one penguin was spotted floating lifelessly in the pool. After the pool was drained, another six lifeless penguins were found. 
  
 Necropsies showed that they had all drowned. The zoo believes something sent the birds into a state of panic. “We suspect there was some reason that they were in distress and stuck under the water, unable to surface and panicking under the water,” said Dorgan. 
  
 “They’re marine animals, they’re pretty adapted to being in water and they thrive in the water more than they do on land. So in order for a penguin to drown you would expect it would have to be some sort of panic, stress-type of situation that would lead to that.” 
  
 The incident is not the only unusual animal death at the zoo. In 2009, a staffer was suspended for two days without pay after a capybara – the world’s largest rodent – was crushed to death in a hydraulic door, while in 2007 a six-year-old hippo died less than 24 hours after being transferred from the Denver Zoo as part of an international breeding program. 
  
 One year later, 41 stingrays died in an interactive exhibit in which visitors were encouraged to touch the stingrays in the water. The zoo attributed the deaths to a lack of dissolved oxygen in the tank. 
  
 Dorgan said the deaths were unrelated. “Anytime that we have any deaths with different circumstances or things out of the ordinary, of course we’re going to look closely,” he said. “We don’t take anything like this lightly.” 
  
 The zoo, home to around 1,000 animals, has been working to continuously improve its processes, he added. “Anytime you have live animals, there’s going to be things that occur. We have humans looking after animals and just like humans doing anything, mistakes are going to happen.” 
  
 Zoo officials said they were working to minimise these errors, which led to one of the gorillas wielding a knife in 2009 after a zookeeper accidentally left it in its enclosure and a kitchen raid carried out by several gorillas in 2013 after the door to their enclosure was left open. 
  
 Some of the high-profile nature of these incidents can be attributed to the zoo’s policy of going public, Dorgan suggested. “The Calgary Zoo has an open transparency policy that most facilities like ours do not have,” he said. “It’s important to us that we make this stuff public and we share it with people so they can understand what does go on at a zoo.” |||||