"The role of non-military means of achieving political and strategic goals has grown, and, in many cases, they have exceeded the power of force of weapons in their effectiveness."
Four years later, Russian attempts to exert influence in foreign powers through information warfare and other non-military means have become a much-reported issue.
It is widely blamed for the Democratic National Committee hacks suspected to have derailed Hillary Clinton's US election campaign.
Many European countries also perceive the hand of the Russian state at work in an array of cyber attacks on government and state institutions, in the phenomenon of "fake news" and disinformation, and in the targeted funding of opposition groups.
Attempting to control information has a long historical trajectory. It is part of the weaponry of many powerful states.
But analysts say Russia's concerted effort to cultivate techniques of information-warfare and non-military intervention over recent years is something new.
"At various stages in the first and second Chechen war, the war with Georgia in 2008, Russia found it was not able to influence global opinion or the opinion of its adversaries at an operational or strategic level, and made significant changes to its information-warfare apparatus as a result," says Keir Giles of the Conflict Studies Research Centre.
"In the Georgia war, they found that to influence world public opinion and to properly exploit the connectivity of the internet they needed to start a massive recruitment campaign to bring in linguists, journalists, anybody who could talk directly to populations in foreign countries en masse".
They include:
Numerous cyber attacks in Europe have been blamed on Russian-linked groups - many of them spectacular. In 2015 France's TV5Monde broadcaster was taken off air and very nearly entirely destroyed, and there was a massive data hack of deputies in Germany's lower house of parliament.
Another cyber attack, on Bulgaria in October 2016, was described by the country's president as the "heaviest" and most "intense" to be conducted in south-eastern Europe.
Such attacks are said to date to 10 years ago, when Estonia, a cyber pioneer and former Soviet state, was hit by a massive denial-of-service attack rendering websites inaccessible with a barrage of requests.
The assault is said to have opened the world's eyes to the potential power of attacking a country's internet infrastructure, with a defence ministry spokesman comparing the attacks to those launched against the US on 11 September 2001.
An attack on a Ukrainian power plant in 2015 led to days of blackout. Hacking is not just an issue in cyber-space - it can have devastating real-world impacts.
In France, Marine Le Pen's anti-EU National Front received a €9m loan from a Russian bank in 2014 (then £7m; $11m).
In Austria, the far-right Freedom Party of Austria denied claims it receives money from Moscow late last year after signing a co-operation agreement with Russian President Vladimir Putin's United Russia party.
In January 2016, the UK's Telegraph revealed that US intelligence agencies were to investigate clandestine Russian funding of political parties in Europe.
The well-established concept of disinformation - the intentional spreading of false facts - has in the past year been joined by a new term, "fake news".
This refers to false or misleading reporting often originating from little-known fringe websites which claim they are providing an alternative to the "lying" mainstream media. And there has been a tidal wave of it, much (though not all) with a pro-Kremlin slant.
The most notorious example, say analysts, was the depiction of Ukraine as being governed by fascists, thus justifying intervention by pro-Russian forces. Like the most effective examples, this story contained enough of a kernel of truth to be persuasive - as the BBC's David Stern put it in 2014, the leadership in Ukraine was neither a "fascist junta" nor "completely fascist-free".
An investigation by Buzzfeed news in November last year found that the leaders of Italy's anti-establishment (and anti-EU) Five Star Movement had "built a sprawling network of websites and social media accounts that are spreading fake news, conspiracy theories, and pro-Kremlin stories to millions of people".
The party threw its weight behind a "No" vote in a referendum on constitutional reform - the vote was duly lost, and PM Matteo Renzi resigned.
In Germany, a 13-year-old girl, "Lisa", told police she had been raped by people of "Mediterranean appearance", triggering anti-migrant protests against Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Berlin later hit out at Moscow for making political capital out of the case.
Pressing Moscow's case are its "troll farms" of internet commentators and Russian-backed news organisations such as RT and Sputnik.
The EU is so worried that it has established a unit of experts explicitly tasked with "address[ing] Russia's ongoing disinformation campaigns".
The official Russian line is no. On 9 March Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov even accused the CIA of masquerading as Russian hackers.
But according to Dr Giles, Russia "is becoming less and less interested in covering its tracks" - its interference in the US election was "more or less overt" and it was happy to permit dozens of Western journalists to visit a notorious St Petersburg troll farm.
That is, he says, "partly because of a sense of urgency that the next conflict is coming".
An EU official with knowledge of the issue says disinformation campaigns are not always top-down. "It's not like every single piece of it is orchestrated by the Kremlin," the official said.
"It's about creating this ecosystem that works in significant parts almost independently", with actors working for financial motives such as clicks or funding from Russian organisations.
In the case of the "Lisa" rape case in Germany, the story originated on a small blog, not in Moscow.
But it is telling, says the official, that journalists behind the propaganda are decorated with state medals - including 300 journalists covering Russia's annexation of Crimea and 60 pushing a pro-Kremlin narrative on Syria.
According to former Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev, "the game in Europe today is not to have a full-scale war and to shoot against your enemy, but the game of Mr Putin is to make other countries dependent.
"What today Russia is trying to achieve is to weaken Europe, to divide Europe and to make us dependent."
Disinformation, analysts argue, played a key role in anti-EU campaigns in, for instance, as the UK's referendum on EU membership - won by Eurosceptics.
And some fear an even more destabilising impact down the road as, for instance, outfits such as RT (and its not-so-dissimilar US counterpart Breitbart) establish bases in European powers such as France and Germany (where elections are being held this year).
"I'm concerned that the people of France and Germany aren't more concerned!" says the EU official.
"It's here, it's corrosive, it's more massive than we thought it was."