The evacuation of the Jet2 plane at East Midlands Airport was hampered when one of the escape chutes did not work.
It came after the pilot was unable to check whether landing gear had deployed and the failure of the cabin PA system.
The initial fault was caused by a loose connection the Air Accident Investigation Branch concluded.
Because of the landing gear problems, the pilot - flying from Ibiza last September - was forced to fly over the airport at 1,000 ft (300m) so ground crew could check if it had come down, the report said.
But it was too dark to tell and the co-pilot had to look out of windows in the main cabin, before the pilot was cleared to land.
As the plane taxied on the runway, passengers reportedly panicked when the smoke began to seep into the cabin.
Because the PA system was not working, cabin crew tried to use a loud hailer to tell passengers but the volume button had fallen off.
The escape chute then failed to deploy effectively, forcing some of the passengers to run out on to the wing before leaping onto the ground.
One member of cabin crew only realised the plane was being evacuated when she saw passengers on the wing.
According to the report, a problem was first spotted when the pilots realised the address system was not working.
Several other failures were noticed including an equipment cooling fan, a radio, weather radar, the autobrake, power to the standby altitude indicator and compass.
It was realised there was a problem with a battery connection, known as a busbar, forcing the pilots to request a quick landing at the airport.
After a successful landing, passengers and crew could smell smoke but the commander could not announce a full evacuation.
Since the incident, Jet2 has included a procedure within its manual which will better-prepare pilots in the event of a repeat and also reduce the chance it will result in an evacuation, the report said.
The AAIB concluded all the problems - bar the escape chute - stemmed from the loose connection possibly caused by the over-tightened nut.
It also noted smoke started to seep into the cabin because a fan stopped working creating a build up of dust and oil in the air conditioning.
It was suggested the problem with the escape chute could be because a crew member was more used to opening a door on the opposite side of the plane.