
  
 Our law enforcement officers respond to emergencies every day, but every now and then there’s a 911 call that leads to an encounter of the cutest kind. 
  
 That’s what happened to a Greenville County Deputy this week when a toddler called 911 needing some unexpected help. 
  
 When you’re two years old, it’s usually a challenge to pick a favorite toy or a color to draw with. For little Aliyah, dressing herself proved to be a downright emergency. It was so much so, she called on Greenville’s finest, Wednesday, to help her with her pants. 
  
 “Dispatch actually gave us a call and they said it sounded like a baby on the phone and it was basically a 911 hang up call,” said Deputy Martha Lohnes. 
  
 Lohnes was sent to investigate. 
  
 “The door opened up and she comes running out to the front with half a pant leg on and she’s just like “HEY,” said Lohnes. 
  
 A natural with kids thanks to two baby sisters of her own, Lohnes lent a hand. 
  
 “I just ended up sitting down on the stairs helping he put on the rest of her pants and then it was almost like a reward, she just wanted a hug,” she explained. 
  
 Needless to say, when mom, Pebbles Ryan, got the call at work, she was a little surprised. 
  
 “I came home to “oh, the police helped your daughter put pants on”. I was like “OH! Ok?” Then she wouldn’t let any of the police leave because she wanted hugs,” said Ryan. 
  
 She said Aliyah is no stranger to cell phones and they’ve talked about 911 before. 
  
 “We’ve pointed out the numbers but it completely surprised me that she actually did it,” said Ryan. 
  
 “I thought it was awesome that at two years old, she knew to call 911 at all,” added Lohnes. 
  
 Thursday, Aliyah sported a new pair of jeans. This time, these are a little easier to wear. She also got a new friend out of the deal in Deputy Lohnes. 
  
 In a job where Deputy Lohnes too often has to respond to tragedy, she’s grateful for the moment to pause to witness a child’s playful innocence and maybe grab a picture or a hug before hitting the road. 
  
 Last year, the Greenville County Sheriff’s Office responded to more than 250,000 911 calls. They say they respond to every one, not matter what. While they train for every outcome, they added that you can’t teach the passion and charisma that Deputy Lohnes displayed. ||||| The Greenville County Sheriff’s Office shared a story about a call that made one deputy’s day on Wednesday. 
  
 “Not all calls that we go to are in progress robbery and murder calls,” the agency posted on Facebook Wednesday. “As a matter of fact, the vast majority are quite ordinary in nature. So within the busy shift of answering call after call, just one like this will totally make your day as a deputy.” 
  
 The call was from a 2-year-old girl who needed some help getting dressed and chose to bypass her parents’ assistance in favor of someone who knows a thing or two about the importance of a uniform. 
  
 Luckily, Greenville County Sheriff’s Deputy Lohnes wasn’t far away. 
  
 "This little 2-year-old girl dialed 911 without her parents knowing,” Lohnes recounted. “I show up and she comes to the door with her pants half on, saying she can't get them on. So I sit down on the stairs and help her put pants on. And then she proceeds to ask me to pick her up and hug her…and that would be the best part of my shift today." 
  
 Copyright 2016 FOX Carolina (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved. ||||| A South Carolina two-year-old girl called 911 with a wardrobe emergency. (Greenville County Sheriff’s Office) 
  
 Look, getting dressed is hard. 
  
 There are the “nothing in my closet looks good” mornings. The “it’s freezing outside but my office is a sauna and I don’t know which climate to dress for” mornings. The “I’ve been putting off going to the laundromat for weeks and now all I have to wear to work is this free t-shirt I got at a walk-a-thon in college” mornings. 
  
 And, you know, maybe not all of us have had a “I can’t get my pants on and could use some professional assistance” morning. But in that situation, who among us wouldn’t do the same thing that 2-year-old Aaliyah from South Carolina did, and dial 911? 
  
 A wardrobe malfunction is an emergency, folks. 
  
 Do your kids know how to call 911 in case of emergency? Posted by WSPA 7News on Thursday, March 3, 2016 
  
 The call to the Greenville County emergency dispatcher’s office came on Wednesday, local TV station WHNS reported. 
  
 “Hello. Greenville County, 911” the dispatcher said, succinctly. 
  
 “Hello?” came the almost incoherent reply. 
  
 The dispatcher repeated himself. But all he got was a toddler’s muffled babbling. 
  
 It sounded like a joke call, sheriff’s deputy Martha Lohnes told WSPA, but the dispatcher reached out to the sheriff’s department just to be sure. Lohnes was in the neighborhood nearby, so she headed to the house to investigate. 
  
 Aaliyah’s grandfather answered the door, completely bewildered. He’d had no clue that the little girl had called anyone, let alone the police. 
  
 Then, Aaliya “comes running out to the front with half a pant leg on and she’s just like ‘Hey!'” Lohnes recalled. 
  
 The deputy has two little sisters of her own, so she understood the gravity of the situation. She sat the little girl down on the stairs and helped her get her other leg into pants. Then, because a cop’s work is never done, she helped tie Aliyah’s shoes. 
  
 As a “reward,” Lohnes said, the toddler gave her a hug. 
  
 “It was the highlight of my day and I loved it,” the deputy told WHNS. 
  
 Aaliyah’s mother Pebbles Ryan, who had been at work for the entire wardrobe emergency, was alarmed to get a text from her father saying the cops had showed up at the house. 
  
 Then she saw why. 
  
 “I just started laughing,” Ryan told WHNS. 
  
 Well my youngest baby aaliyah decided to call the police on my dad while I was at work.they thought she was so cute when… Posted by Pebbles Ryan on Thursday, March 3, 2016 
  
 Speaking with WSPA, Ryan said that she’d shown her daughter how to use a cellphone and told her that 911 was the number to call in an emergency. 
  
 Perhaps she could have been a little bit clearer about what exactly an “emergency” entails. 
  
 On Thursday, when Lohnes returned to the house for a TV interview, Aaliyah was sporting a new pair of jeans. These ones, she told WSPA, were a little bit easier to put on. 
  
 Aaliyah, you set an example for us all. 
  
 More heartwarming stories from Morning Mix: 
  
 ‘Touchdown!’ Scott Kelly returns to Earth with a fist-pump and a cult following 
  
 These are the athletes who hope to be on the first Olympic team for refugees 
  
 This teenage wrestler has a perfect record and a state title. He also has no legs. |||||