Ben Affleck is heading back to rehab. 
  
 The actor, 46, is seeking treatment for alcohol addiction, PEOPLE confirms. 
  
 Get push notifications with news, features and more. 
  
 A source tells PEOPLE, “He is seeking treatment. He knew he needed help and was vocal about it.” 
  
 The move to enter a treatment facility came after his ex Jennifer Garner was photographed arriving at his home on Wednesday. 
  
 The Peppermint actress was seen leaving Affleck’s upset and shaking. When she returned, Garner, Affleck and an unidentified woman who arrived at the actor’s home with her were photographed in a car the actress was driving. 
  
 The mother of three reportedly stopped by a Jack In The Box in the Pacific Palisades before the trio drove to a treatment facility in Malibu. 
  
 On Monday, the Justice League star was photographed receiving an alcohol delivery outside of his Brentwood, California, home. 
  
 RELATED: Jennifer Garner Stops by Ex Ben Affleck’s Home After He Was Linked to 22-Year-Old Playboy Model 
  
 Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner X17online.com 
  
 Affleck was seen outside of his house wearing a dark gray T-shirt and light gray sweatpants as he picked up a Pacifico beer-branded box filled with what appeared to be Johnnie Walker Blue Label scotch whisky in a blue case and some other unidentifiable bottles. 
  
 While the actor, 46, has been in ongoing treatment and attending meetings for alcohol addiction, his new flame, Playboy’s May 2018 Playmate, 22, told the magazine her go-to drink is “whiskey all day.” 
  
 “Bourbon, for sure,” she added. “I like whiskey and soda, which makes people cringe, but I like it.” 
  
 RELATED VIDEO: Ben Affleck Likes to ‘Date Who He Wants and Not Feel Tied Down’: Source 
  
 A source tells PEOPLE in this week’s issue Garner’s focus remains on their children. 
  
 “Is she happy about him hanging out with a very young Playboy model? Certainly not,” a source says in this week’s new issue. “But her concern right now is not who he is dating. What she ultimately cares about is his sobriety and whether she can rely on him to co-parent.” 
  
 RELATED: Ben Affleck’s New Flame Shauna Sexton Flashes Abs, Jokes About Paparazzi: ‘We’re Getting Serious’ 
  
 Affleck picking up an alcohol delivery outside of his home BackGrid 
  
 Just before his 46th birthday on Aug. 15, a friend of the actor told PEOPLE that “Ben is doing well. He is in a good place mentally and has worked really hard to get there.” 
  
 “He continues to focus on himself and the health of his relationships,” the friend added. “He attends meetings, many meetings, and he also does meditation and yoga.” 
  
 “While he still has his moments — and let’s be honest, everyone struggles — he continues to work hard on himself.” 
  
 RELATED: Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus Split Over Distance, Says Source: ‘They Tried to Make It Work’ 
  
 His first time in rehab was in 2001. In March 2017, Affleck announced that he had completed treatment for alcohol addiction. 
  
 “I have completed treatment for alcohol addiction; something I’ve dealt with in the past and will continue to confront,” he wrote on Facebook. “I want to live life to the fullest and be the best father I can be. I want my kids to know there is no shame in getting help when you need it, and to be a source of strength for anyone out there who needs help but is afraid to take the first step. I’m lucky to have the love of my family and friends, including my co-parent, Jen, who has supported me and cared for our kids as I’ve done the work I set out to do. This was the first of many steps being taken towards a positive recovery.” 
  
 TMZ first reported the news. 
  
 If you or someone you know is in need of help, please contact the SAMHSA substance abuse helpline at 1-800-662-HELP. ||||| Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) 
  
 Ben Affleck has broken up with “SNL” producer Lindsay Shookus after more than a year of dating, friends believe. 
  
 The Oscar winner was spotted with Playboy’s Miss May 2018 Shauna Sexton, at posh eatery Nobu Malibu on Thursday night. 
  
 He hasn’t been seen in public with Shookus since July. Shookus is believed to be in LA for work — making it all the more strange that she wasn’t seen out and about with Affleck. And a source told us: “If your boyfriend is seen with a Playboy model out in public at dinner, then I’d say Ben and Lindsay have been split for a while.” 
  
 The night before, Affleck had celebrated his birthday with his three kids from his marriage to Jennifer Garner. 
  
 Again, Shookus was nowhere to be seen. 
  
 She has also deleted her Instagram account. ||||| ... 
  
 # DRC ||||| Following Jennifer Garner's rare Hollywood Walk Of Fame appearance, and Ben Affleck's newly kindled romance with a 22-year-old Playboy model making headlines, the estranged couple's relationship status has once again entered our consciousness, prompting us all to ask the question: why aren't they divorced yet? If you haven't been keeping up with Garner and Affleck's rollercoaster of a relationship post-split, allow us to get you up to speed. 
  
 The couple made headlines worldwide after announcing that they would be going their separate ways after 10 years of marriage. Just days after the pair marked their ten year wedding anniversary, the couple released a short statement about their separation back in 2015: "After much thought and careful consideration, we have made the difficult decision to divorce. We go forward with love and friendship for one another and a commitment to co-parenting our children whose privacy we ask to be respected during this difficult time. This will be our only comment on this private, family matter. Thank you for understanding." RELATED VIDEO: JENNIFER GARGER ON HER RELATIONSHIP WITH BEN AFFLECK: "WE MAKE IT WORK" 
  
 Since first announcing their separation, the couple have maintained an amicable relationship, successfully co-parenting their three children—Violet (aged 12), Seraphina (aged nine) and Samuel (aged six). The pair seem so friendly, in fact, that many people have taken their delay in divorcing, paired with their cheerful demeanour in public and several family holidays, to mean that there may be a chance that the two will reunite once again. But considering Affleck's many highly publicised relationships—notably with SNL producer, Lindsey Shookus, and most recently with model Shauna Sexton—and Garner's solo public appearance, we suspect that a rekindling may not be on the cards. So what could possibly be holding up their final and legal split? 
  
 After reportedly trying to work on their relationship after announcing their separation, with Affleck even attempting to win his ex-wife back, Garner ultimately filed for divorce in April 2017. But rather than progress with legal proceedings, the actress seems to have put a hold on the whole thing. The divorce has taken so long to finalise that the judge handling their case is even threatening to dismiss it. According to The Blast, the court is quickly losing patience, telling the couple "If you fail to take the appropriate steps in your case, the court may dismiss your case for delay in prosecution." RELATED VIDEO: JENNIFER GARNER AND BEN AFFLECK'S DAUGHTER VIOLET IS SO GROWN UP 
  
 It seems the one thing holding Garner back from signing off on the divorce is one single frustration she still has with her ex-husband—his sobriety. A source close to the actress voiced her concerns, explaining that his current state makes her uneasy about progressing with their divorce. "Jen is on good terms with Ben for the most part, [but] they still have their frustrations," they told Us Weekly. "It's a working progress and they're still taking it one day at a time." The source went on to say: "The one thing she's not flexible on is sobriety. Jen is hesitant to sign off until she's certain that the kids will be in the best hands at all time. Finalizing the divorce has been a long process because of it." 
  
 Affleck has since been spotted arriving at Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. "This is part of his practice and how he maintains his personal health," a source told Us Weekly. "He's been doing these classes for months. He's also been spotted outside of meditation classes as well as meetings. He's focused on being there for those in his life." Progress aside, the couple are now aware that they may need to re-file for divorce considering Garner's still-existing hesitation when it comes to Affleck's suitability as their childrens' guardian. ||||| Ben Affleck Seeks Help and Back in Rehab After Intervention by Jen Garner 
  
 Ben Affleck Seeks Help and Back in Rehab After Intervention by Jen Garner 
  
 EXCLUSIVE 
  
 8/23 -- The photo above is Affleck at Jack in the Box, where he stopped before arriving at the rehab center. 
  
 8/22 7:20 PM PT -- We've learned Ben has arrived at a live-in rehab facility and will check in for an extended period of time. 
  
 Jennifer Garner has staged an intervention to help Ben Affleck, and TMZ has learned Ben wanted the help and agreed to go to rehab. 
  
 Jennifer went to Ben's Pacific Palisades home Wednesday afternoon to sit down with her estranged husband, begging him to get help. We've learned Ben didn't need begging ... he knows he needs help and was receptive. 
  
 Jen and Ben drove off at around 6 PM PT from the house ... and sources say the destination is a rehab facility. Our sources say Ben will enter a facility in L.A. County. We just found out they stopped at a Jack in the Box en route to the rehab place. 
  
 We're told Ben fell off the wagon a while ago, and has gotten progressively worse. 
  
 Our sources say the tipping point came 2 days ago when Jen saw a pic of Ben grabbing a box from a delivery man ... a box filled with beer and liquor. 
  
 Ben has been to rehab before ... back in 2001 for alcohol abuse.﻿ He also went back to rehab last December. 
  
 Jen filed for divorce in April, 2017 ... 2 years after they announced their split. The former couple remained close -- partly for their 3 kids -- and they are still not officially divorced. 
  
 Ben showed signs of excessive drinking when he took his date Playboy Playmate Shauna Sexton to Nobu in Malibu last week. His face was blotchy and he looked disheveled. 
  
 Originally Published 8/22/2018 6:25 PM PDT ||||| Staying Sober 
  
 Affleck has battled alcohol addiction for many years, seeking treatment for the first time in 2001. He wrote about his struggles after completing a program in March 2017. “I want to live life to the fullest and be the best father I can be. I want my kids to know there is no shame in getting help when you need it, and to be a source of strength for anyone out there who needs help but is afraid to take the first step,” the actor wrote on Facebook at the time. “I’m lucky to have the love of my family and friends, including my co-parent, Jen, who has supported me and cared for our kids as I’ve done the work I set out to do. This was the first of many steps being taken towards a positive recovery.” |||||