JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Newt Gingrich abandoned his role as Mitt Romney’s chief antagonist in Thursday night’s presidential debate, going easy on the national GOP front-runner as a third candidate joined the fray in force. 
  
 It was Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator and Iowa caucus winner, who challenged Romney aggressively over his record on health care as Gingrich repeatedly pulled his punches — a surprising strategy that he may regret if his momentum cools before next Tuesday’s primary. 
  
 Text Size - 
  
 + 
  
 reset 
  
 “What Gov. Romney just said is that government-run, top-down medicine is working pretty well in Massachusetts and he supports it,” Santorum said as Romney spoke up for his home state’s universal health care law. “Folks, we can’t give this issue away in this election. It is about fundamental freedom.” 
  
 Romney responded with a forceful defense of the Massachusetts law, which includes an individual mandate, and chided Santorum for his intense demeanor. 
  
 “First of all, it’s not worth getting angry about,” said Romney, who promised he’d be able to show that he has “passionate concern” about the American people’s health care in a general election. 
  
 The debate here at the University of North Florida failed to deliver the apocalyptic showdown between Gingrich and Romney that was widely expected between the two Florida front-runners. It was their final face-to-face confrontation before Tuesday’s voting, which could cast a devastating blow to Romney’s campaign or dramatically slow Gingrich’s surge into true primary contention. 
  
 And if Gingrich hoped that a powerful debate performance would help him sustain his boost from last weekend’s blowout victory in South Carolina, it is unlikely that’s what he got out of the candidate forum. 
  
 “He seemed like he had lost his mojo a little bit tonight and I’m not sure why,” said former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Romney backer who declared after the debate that Romney “kicked butt.” 
  
 Pawlenty said of Romney’s performance: “He’s somebody who has the ability to deliver consistently at an ‘A’ level.” 
  
 Neither Gingrich nor Romney lobbed the kind of rhetorical hand grenades they’ve been using on the campaign trail. If one of the candidates was on the offensive more persistently and effectively, it was likely Romney, who quickly homed in on Gingrich’s personal business arrangements and views on immigration. 
  
 Romney repeatedly criticized Gingrich in a cool and level tone, calling him a “horn-tooter” for the government-backed mortgage industry and mocking him for “going state to state, promising what people want to hear.” 
  
 “Speaker Gingrich was hired by Freddie Mac to promote them, to influence other people throughout Washington,” Romney said, repeating an attack that he and his campaign have leveled numerous times. “What he was doing was clearly promoting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to the tune of $1.6 million.” 
  
 Gingrich, put on the defensive, retorted that Romney should examine his own culpability in the U.S. mortgage crisis through investments in Fannie and Freddie as well as Goldman Sachs. He challenged Romney to reveal “how much money he’s made off of how many households that have been foreclosed.” 
  
 Romney pushed back on that accusation, saying his investments were managed through a blind trust and the relevant investments were through mutual funds. ||||| Mr. Gingrich started the week with all the momentum here after his victory in South Carolina. But he has subsequently come under relentless pounding from the Romney campaign and its supporters, a battering that appears to have had some impact. 
  
 Throughout the 19 debates, Mr. Gingrich has won over debate audiences on site and in their living rooms with an assortment of one-liners aimed at the establishment and, frequently, the news media. At times Thursday night he turned to those techniques, but to little seeming effect. 
  
 And Mr. Romney gave no ground, even when Mr. Gingrich at one point seemed willing to do so. The moderator, Wolf Blitzer of CNN, effectively invited Mr. Gingrich to critique Mr. Romney’s release this week of his tax returns, which disclosed that his blind trust included a Swiss bank account that was shut down in 2010. 
  
 “How about if the four of us agree for the rest of the evening we’ll actually talk about issues that relate to governing America?” Mr. Gingrich responded when Mr. Blitzer asked him if he was satisfied that Mr. Romney was sufficiently transparent in releasing his tax returns. 
  
 But after Mr. Blitzer noted that Mr. Gingrich had made an issue of Mr. Romney’s personal wealth earlier this week, Mr. Romney said sternly, “Wouldn’t it be nice if people didn’t make accusations somewhere else that they weren’t willing to defend here?” Inviting a fight in which he used offense as defense, as he did many times during the course of the night, he told Mr. Gingrich, “I think it’s important for people to make sure that we don’t castigate individuals who’ve been successful.” 
  
 Photo 
  
 The few moments of levity were often left to Representative Ron Paul. Asked whether his health was strong enough for him to serve as president, considering that at age 76 he would be the oldest president of the United States, he did not hesitate. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “I’m willing to challenge any of these gentlemen up here to a 25-mile bike ride any time of the day in the heat of Texas,” Mr. Paul said, pausing as the crowd erupted in laughter. “You know there are laws against age discrimination, so if you push this too much, you better be careful.” 
  
 And Mr. Santorum seemed to use every opportunity to recapture some of the excitement surround his candidacy into — and out of — the Iowa caucuses, starting with an introduction of his 93-year-old mother, who was in the audience, and continuing with forceful attacks against Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney for their positions on health care and for “playing petty personal politics.” 
  
 “Guys, leave that alone and focus on the issue,” Mr. Santorum said, drawing approval from the Republicans seated in the audience. 
  
 He raised his voice as he repeatedly insisted that the health care plan Mr. Romney signed into law as Massachusetts governor was no different than the national plan Mr. Obama signed. 
  
 “In Massachusetts, everybody is mandated as a condition of breathing to buy health insurance,” Mr. Santorum said. “And if you don’t, you have to pay a fine.” 
  
 Video 
  
 Mr. Romney sought to brush back his opponent, saying: “It’s not worth getting angry about.” As the crowd fell silent, he said that he would move to repeal the national health care plan. 
  
 Perhaps the sharpest and most personal moment between Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich came toward the start of the debate, over immigration and a suggestion that Mr. Gingrich’s campaign had made in an ad — which it eventually pulled down — calling Mr. Romney “anti-immigrant.” 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “That’s simply inexcusable. It’s inexcusable,” Mr. Romney said, taking an opportunity to remind voters here that his father was born in Mexico. He added, “The idea that I’m anti-immigrant is repulsive. Don’t use a term like that.” 
  
 Referring to Mr. Romney’s comments at an earlier debate that some immigrants would “self-deport” under tougher rules, Mr. Gingrich said his immigration policy would “allow the grandmother to be here, legally, with some rights,” so that “he or she can finish their life with dignity within the law.” 
  
 Mr. Romney shot back, “Our problem is not 11 million grandmothers.” 
  
 Mr. Romney’s performance was hardly flawless. He did not take responsibility for his own investments, including those that are intertwined with Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and Goldman Sachs. In a moment that could be repeated again and again, he said he had a “blind trust” and declared: “First of all, my investments are not made by me.” 
  
 When Mr. Blitzer asked him about a radio ad his campaign is running against Mr. Gingrich that alleges Mr. Gingrich had said Spanish was the “language of the ghetto,” Mr. Romney said, “I doubt that’s my ad, but we’ll take a look and find out.” 
  
 Mr. Blitzer soon after chimed in, “We just double-checked: It was one of your ads; it’s running here in Florida, in — on the radio, and at the end you say, ‘I’m Mitt Romney, and I approved this ad.’ ” (Mr. Gingrich complained that the ad took his comments “out of context” and won over the audience when he said emphatically, “I think English should be the official language of government, and that’s why I think every young American should learn English.”) 
  
 At the end of a bruising day, when the full breadth of the Republican establishment descended upon him, Mr. Gingrich seemed to concede that he was outgunned. “Well,” he said, “it’s increasingly interesting to watch the Romney attack machine coordinate things.” ||||| Products & events 
  
 More ways to interact with The Economist 
  
 Keep up-to-date on the latest products, events and activities: 
  
 The world comes to Brazil 
  
 Brazil has kicked off the world's greatest football tournament and to celebrate, The Economist has created a free download featuring special content on this year's competition. Download it for free now. 
  
 Have you listened to The Economist Radio on Facebook? 
  
 The Economist Radio is an on-demand social listening platform that allows you to listen, share and recommend The Economist audio content 
  
 World in 2014 
  
 Our app identifies and explores the issues that will shape the year ahead 
  
 Want more from The Economist? 
  
 Visit The Economist e-store and you’ll find a range of carefully selected products for business and pleasure, Economist books and diaries, and much more |||||