Theresa May has told Sky News Donald Trump's lewd remarks about women were "unacceptable" ahead of meeting him this spring. 
  
 Speaking to Sophy Ridge on Sunday in her first TV interview of the year, the Prime Minister was critical of offensive comments previously made by the President-elect, but pointed out he had since apologised for them. 
  
 :: PM says no 'muddled thinking' on Brexit 
  
 Mrs May also said she believed the US remained "fully committed" to NATO, despite Mr Trump's criticism of the military alliance, which he has described as obsolete. 
  
 Mr Trump faced an angry backlash during last year's presidential campaign after a 2005 recording emerged of him boasting about groping women and that he could "grab them by the pussy" because of his celebrity status. 
  
 Asked by Sophy Ridge about her response as a woman to the comments, Mrs May said: "I think that's unacceptable, but in fact Donald Trump himself has said that and has apologised for it. 
  
 "But the relationship that the UK has with the United States is about something much bigger than just the relationship between the two individuals as president and prime minister. 
  
 "That's important, but actually we have a long-standing special relationship with the United States. 
  
 "It's based on shared values and it is a relationship where, actually in the UK, we feel we can say to the US if we disagree with something that they are doing." 
  
 :: As it happened - PM speaks to Sophy Ridge on Sunday 
  
 Mr Trump has tweeted he was "very much" looking forward to meeting the PM, adding that he considered Britain to be a "very special" ally - a signal the "special relationship" between the US and the UK will be maintained under his administration. 
  
 The pair are due to meet in Washington in the spring after the PM's closest advisers travelled to the US in December to forge links with the President-elect's team and pave the way for the visit. 
  
 I look very much forward to meeting Prime Minister Theresa May in Washington in the Spring. Britain, a longtime U.S. ally, is very special! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 8, 2017 
  
 A date for the mini-summit is yet to be announced, but it is expected to come within weeks of Mr Trump's inauguration on 20 January. 
  
 Mr Trump wrote on Twitter: "I look very much forward to meeting Prime Minister Theresa May in Washington in the Spring. Britain, a longtime US ally, is very special!" 
  
 Mr Trump's warm words will be welcomed by Downing Street after so much attention has focused on his close relationship with former UKIP leader Nigel Farage. 
  
 Mrs May was upbeat about the future relationship with the White House, which is seen as vital as the UK prepares to break with Brussels. 
  
 She said: "From the conversations I have already had - I have had two very good, positive conversations with Donald Trump already - I think we are going to look to build on that relationship for the benefit of both the US and the UK. 
  
 "I think that is something that is optimistic and positive for the UK for the future." 
  
 Mrs May also indicated her confidence in the US commitment to NATO, despite Mr Trump's comments and his praise for the Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
  
 She said: "Sometimes people think that there is going to be a change in the American approach to NATO. 
  
 "From the conversations I have had, I think America remains fully committed to NATO as we do." 
  
 Read more: 
  
 :: PM Theresa May: No 'muddled thinking' on Brexit 
  
 :: Watch the PM interview in full: Brexit, the NHS and Trump 
  
 :: Faisal Islam analysis: PM still refuses to define Brexit 
  
 :: PM denies claims of a 'humanitarian crisis' within the NHS ||||| Boris Johnson Boris Johnson flies to New York for talks with Donald Trump's team Foreign secretary’s meeting with US president-elect marks first formal contact between a UK minister and his team The foreign secretary, Boris Johnson. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PA 
  
 Boris Johnson has flown to New York for the UK government’s first formal face-to-face meetings with Donald Trump’s administration, hours after the prime minister declared the president-elect’s remarks about women unacceptable. 
  
 The foreign secretary met Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and the incoming White House chief strategist, Steve Bannon. The meeting marked the first formal contact between a UK government minister and the Trump transition team since his election in November. 
  
 On Monday, Johnson will meet congressional leaders including the speaker, Paul Ryan, the chairman of the foreign relations committee, Bob Corker, and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell. 
  
 Boris Johnson's US task would challenge even an experienced minister Read more 
  
 He will not meet Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, as the protocol is to wait until after the confirmation process has been completed. 
  
 Johnson, a leading member of the campaign for Britain to leave the EU, is likely to discuss the status of the “special relationship” once the former property tycoon takes office, and after the UK leaves the bloc. 
  
 Theresa May used her first interview of 2017 on Sunday to give her clearest indication yet that the UK would leave the single market, a move that will reinforce the importance of securing a trade deal with the US before Brexit. 
  
 The foreign secretary’s visit comes after two of the prime minister’s chiefs of staff, Fiona Hill and Nick Timothy, went on a private visit to meet members of the Trump team. 
  
 “Following the successful meeting last month between the prime minister’s chiefs of staff and president-elect Donald Trump’s team, Boris Johnson is undertaking a short visit to the US for meetings with close advisers to the president-elect and senior congressional leaders,” a Foreign Office spokesman said. “The discussions will be focused on UK-US relations and other foreign policy matters.” 
  
 Before the US election, Johnson was extremely critical of Trump. Following the president-elect’s suggestion that he would back a ban on Muslims entering the US and that parts of London were no-go areas, the foreign secretary said Trump was “clearly out of his mind” and “betraying a quite stupefying ignorance that makes him unfit to hold the office of president of the United States. 
  
 May 'optimistic' on UK-US ties despite Trump's views on women Read more 
  
 Since Trump’s victory, however, Johnson has described the billionaire as a dealmaker and called for an end to the “whinge-o-rama” over his victory. 
  
 Trump tweeted on Saturday night that he was planning to meet May shortly, with March seen as the most likely month. He said he was very much looking forward to meeting May in the coming months and described Britain as a very special ally. 
  
 May was challenged about Trump’s previous comments during her first TV interview of the year. 
  
 His presidential campaign was plunged into crisis after a 2005 recording came to light of him bragging to the TV host Billy Bush about groping women, saying he could “grab them by the pussy” because of his celebrity status. Sophy Ridge asked May how the comments made her feel as a woman on her Sky News show. 
  
 “I think that’s unacceptable, but in fact Donald Trump himself has said that and has apologised for it,” the prime minister said. “But the relationship that the UK has with the United States is about something much bigger than just the relationship between the two individuals as president and prime minister. 
  
 “That’s important, but actually we have a longstanding special relationship with the United States. It’s based on shared values and it is a relationship where, actually in the UK, we feel we can say to the US if we disagree with something that they are doing.” 
  
 The relationship between the Trump team and May has been complicated by the unlikely intervention of Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader, who had enjoyed an inside track with the Republican leader before it seemed likely he would win. 
  
 Farage and his entourage won a high-profile meeting at Trump Tower days after Trump’s election, and he has since implied that the UK ambassador, Sir Kim Darroch, had no serious access to the Trump team’s thinking. 
  
 Trump's cabinet looks increasingly conventional but far from moderate Read more 
  
 May said on Sunday: “From the conversations I have already had – I have had two very good, positive conversations with Donald Trump already – I think we are going to look to build on that relationship for the benefit of both the US and the UK. 
  
 “I think that is something that is optimistic and positive for the UK for the future.” 
  
 Johnson, probably the best-known politician in the May cabinet, has been a political visitor to New York before as London mayor, but like many Conservative politicians admonished Trump for suggesting Muslims would be banned from coming to America. 
  
  
  
 Beyond Brexit, the foreign secretary will need to probe the coming US administration’s thinking on Iran, Syria, relations with Russia and Middle East peace talks. 
  
 It is Johnson’s second visit to New York as foreign secretary. His first was to the UN general assembly. 
  
  ||||| Image copyright PA Image caption Officials said the meetings would focus on UK-US relations 
  
 The foreign secretary has held "positive but frank" talks with some of Donald Trump's key advisers during a visit to New York, officials have said. 
  
 Boris Johnson met Mr Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Steve Bannon, the US president-elect's strategist. 
  
 It was the first formal face-to-face meeting between members of the incoming US administration and a UK minister. 
  
 Officials said they discussed US foreign policy towards Syria, China and Russia. 
  
 On Monday Mr Johnson will be in the capital, Washington DC, to meet key congressional leaders. 
  
 However, he will not meet his future opposite number Rex Tillerson. 
  
 Protocol says that cannot happen until the businessman is confirmed as secretary of state. 
  
 Mr Johnson's visit comes hours after Mr Trump tweeted he is "very much" looking forward to meeting Theresa May in the spring. 
  
 He said that the prime minister, who has spoken to Mr Trump twice since the US election, would head to Washington to meet him after his inauguration. 
  
 He referred to Britain as a "long-time ally" and as "very special". 
  
 Analysis 
  
 Image copyright AFP/Getty Images 
  
 By BBC diplomatic correspondent James Landale 
  
 Boris Johnson's aim in New York is simple. 
  
 He is there to get Britain onto the front foot when it comes to its relations with the incoming administration. 
  
 From the moment Donald Trump was elected, the UK has been playing catch-up. 
  
 The president-elect caused a diplomatic storm when he decided that the first British politician he would meet would be Nigel Farage, whom he suggested would make a good UK ambassador to the United States. 
  
 The idea that the former UKIP leader was closer to Mr Trump than British ministers was hard for the Foreign Office and Downing Street to stomach. 
  
 So Theresa May sent her joint chiefs of staff over before Christmas. 
  
 Mr Johnson is now doing his bit, and then the prime minister herself will visit Mr Trump in Washington in the spring. 
  
 The reason this matters is because it is in the UK's interests to stabilise UK-US relations so that Mrs May can urge Mr Trump against any rapprochement with President Putin of Russia while also seeking a post-Brexit trade deal. 
  
 Speaking on Sky News on Sunday, Mrs May said Britain "shares values" with the US, but she denounced the president-elect's previous obscene comments about women as "unacceptable". 
  
 She said Mr Trump had himself apologised, adding: "But the relationship that the UK has with the United States is about something much bigger than just the relationship between the two individuals as president and prime minister." 
  
 The foreign secretary will travel to Washington on Monday to meet senior republicans, including Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker and Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader. 
  
 Officials said the meetings will be to touch base with the incoming administration and establish a deeper relationship. 
  
 Former British ambassador to the US Sir Christopher Meyer said Mr Johnson's visit was "very important" to "get the smell" of the new administration and find the "point of gravity" in its balance of power. 
  
 He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "All this stuff is incredibly valuable when the prime minister comes to be briefed for her trip across the Atlantic." 
  
 Mrs May received a phone call from Mr Trump two days after the US election and is thought to have been the ninth leader he spoke to. |||||