RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — PayPal said Tuesday that it was scrapping a $3.6-million, 400-job expansion in North Carolina, the biggest tangible economic backlash so far to a new state law that restricts protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. 
  
 More than 100 corporate leaders have decried the law, saying it is unfair and makes it more difficult to attract talent. PayPal's announcement came days after Lionsgate decided to move the filming for the pilot episode of a comedy series to Canada. 
  
 "This decision reflects PayPal's deepest values and our strong belief that every person has the right to be treated equally, and with dignity and respect," the company said in a statement. 
  
 Meanwhile, organizers say some customers have pulled out of one of the world's largest furniture markets in Charlotte, and New Jersey-based Braeburn Pharmaceuticals said it was reconsidering building a $50 million facility in Durham County that would have created 50 jobs paying an average of $76,000 a year. 
  
 Gov. Pat McCrory and legislative leaders did not respond to requests for comment on PayPal's decision. Just days before signing the law March 23, McCrory was on hand when PayPal announced plans for its new operation center in Charlotte, his hometown. 
  
 A group that supported the legislation said PayPal pulled out after receiving millions in corporate incentives. The North Carolina Values Coalition said in a statement that "a company with its hands in the pockets of the taxpayers of North Carolina shouldn't insert itself into the bathroom policies of the state." 
  
 The legislation marked the first state law in the nation limiting the bathroom options for transgender people, requiring them to use those conforming to the sex on their birth certificates. The law also excludes lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people from anti-discrimination protections, and blocks municipalities from adopting their own anti-discrimination and living wage rules. ||||| The North Carolina law has prompted the Obama administration to consider whether the state would be ineligible for billions of dollars in federal funding for schools, housing and highways. 
  
 Mr. McCrory, a Republican who is seeking re-election in November, and other supporters of the law have played down suggestions that the Obama administration would rescind those billions. Mr. McCrory’s Democratic opponent, Roy Cooper, the state’s attorney general, has said in the past that the law may put the federal funding at risk and has refused to defend the state in a lawsuit challenging it. 
  
 In a statement Tuesday, Mr. McCrory said he strongly disagreed with President Obama and Mr. Cooper’s objective “to force our high schools to allow boys in girls’ restrooms, locker rooms or shower facilities,” but would evaluate the effect of Tuesday’s ruling on North Carolina law and policy. 
  
 The A.C.L.U. brought the case on behalf of Mr. Grimm, who was born female but identifies as a male, in June, seeking a preliminary injunction so that Mr. Grimm could use the boys’ restrooms at his school. 
  
 The school administration initially allowed him to do so, but the local school board later approved a policy that barred him from the boys’ restrooms; according to court documents, the policy also “required students with ‘gender identity issues’ to use an alternative private facility” to go to the bathroom. 
  
 Judge Robert G. Doumar of Federal District Court ruled against Mr. Grimm in September, dismissing his claim that the school board had violated Title IX, although the judge did allow his case to go forward under the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. 
  
 The ruling by a three-judge panel on Tuesday reversed the lower court’s dismissal of the Title IX claim, stating that the District Court “did not accord appropriate deference” to regulations issued by the Department of Education. The department’s current guidelines dictate that schools “generally must treat transgender students consistent with their gender identity.” ||||| Recent debate around proposed laws in several states has reignited a national conversation around inclusivity. So earlier this week, we reiterated with our team members where Target stands and how our beliefs are brought to life in how we serve our guests. 
  
 Inclusivity is a core belief at Target. It’s something we celebrate. We stand for equality and equity, and strive to make our guests and team members feel accepted, respected and welcomed in our stores and workplaces every day. 
  
 We believe that everyone—every team member, every guest, and every community—deserves to be protected from discrimination, and treated equally. Consistent with this belief, Target supports the federal Equality Act, which provides protections to LGBT individuals, and opposes action that enables discrimination. 
  
 In our stores, we demonstrate our commitment to an inclusive experience in many ways. Most relevant for the conversations currently underway, we welcome transgender team members and guests to use the restroom or fitting room facility that corresponds with their gender identity. 
  
 We regularly assess issues and consider many factors such as impact to our business, guests and team members. Given the specific questions these legislative proposals raised about how we manage our fitting rooms and restrooms, we felt it was important to state our position. 
  
 Everyone deserves to feel like they belong. And you’ll always be accepted, respected and welcomed at Target. ||||| Title IX and Sex Discrimination 
  
 U.S. Department of Education 
  
 Office for Civil Rights 
  
 400 Maryland Avenue, SW 
  
 Washington, D.C. 20202-1328 
  
 Revised April 2015 
  
 Title IX 
  
 The U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) enforces, among other statutes, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. Title IX protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states that: 
  
 No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance. 
  
 Scope of Title IX 
  
 Title IX applies to institutions that receive federal financial assistance from ED, including state and local educational agencies. These agencies include approximately 16,500 local school districts, 7,000 postsecondary institutions, as well as charter schools, for-profit schools, libraries, and museums. Also included are vocational rehabilitation agencies and education agencies of 50 states, the District of Columbia, and territories and possessions of the United States. 
  
 Educational programs and activities that receive ED funds must operate in a nondiscriminatory manner. Some key issue areas in which recipients have Title IX obligations are: recruitment, admissions, and counseling; financial assistance; athletics; sex-based harassment; treatment of pregnant and parenting students; discipline; single-sex education; and employment. Also, a recipient may not retaliate against any person for opposing an unlawful educational practice or policy, or made charges, testified or participated in any complaint action under Title IX. For a recipient to retaliate in any way is considered a violation of Title IX. The ED Title IX regulations (Volume 34, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 106) provide additional information about the forms of discrimination prohibited by Title IX. 
  
 OCR’s Enforcement of Title IX 
  
 OCR vigorously enforces Title IX to ensure that institutions that receive federal financial assistance from ED comply with the law. OCR evaluates, investigates, and resolves complaints alleging sex discrimination. OCR also conducts proactive investigations, called compliance reviews, to examine potential systemic violations based on sources of information other than complaints. 
  
 In addition to its enforcement activities, OCR provides technical assistance and information and guidance to schools, universities and other agencies to assist them in voluntarily complying with the law. OCR’s Title IX Resource Guide PDF (501K) is a useful tool for schools and their Title IX coordinators to understand schools’ obligations under Title IX. 
  
 For assistance related to Title IX or other civil rights laws, please contact OCR at OCR@ed.gov or 800-421-3481, TDD 800-877-8339. ||||| Gov. Mark Dayton is instructing state employees to avoid work-related travel to North Carolina and Mississippi, in light of those state’s passage of what he called “discriminatory” laws. 
  
 “It’s a moral decision,” the Democratic-Farmer-Labor governor said Wednesday. “In the case of Mississippi, it’s an egregious violation of constitutional rights.” 
  
 On Tuesday, Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant signed a law allowing businesses and individuals to deny service to those whose requests for service violate the providers’ religious belief that marriage is between one man and one woman, “sexual relations are properly reserved to such a marriage; and Male (man) or female (woman) refer to an individual’s immutable biological sex as objectively determined by anatomy and genetics at time of birth.” 
  
 The law extends the “religious beliefs” protections to wedding services, medical services, some government services, access to restrooms and locker rooms and other areas. 
  
 “This act shall be construed in favor of a broad protection of free exercise of religious beliefs and moral convictions, to the maximum extent permitted by the state and federal constitutions,” the act says. 
  
 Dayton said while he respects people’s beliefs, the law constitutes a “fundamental violation of constitutional protections….It’s a step back.” 
  
 Over the weekend, Dayton asked Minnesota state employees to refrain from work travel to North Carolina. Last week, that state approved “a mandatory statewide anti-discrimination policy that excludes protections based on sexual orientation and gender identity.” 
  
 In banning travel, Dayton joins Democratic governors in New York, Washington and Vermont in taking the action. 
  
 It is not clear what practical impact the Minnesota’s governor would have. Dayton banned “nonessential” travel, which he said Wednesday was a subjective definition. 
  
 State Rep. Pat Garofalo, R-Farmington, said Dayton should have banned any “nonessential” state travel long ago. 
  
 “Stopping any such nonessential travel should be addressed before Democrats seek passage of their proposals to raise taxes on Minnesota families. I call on Governor Dayton to issue an order halting ALL nonessential, taxpayer-funded travel,” Garofalo said in a statement, adding: “In addition, he should consider banning all travel to Ontario, Canada, in retaliation for the pain their citizen, Justin Bieber, has inflicted on Minnesotans through his music.” 
  
 Business leaders’ reaction to the southern states’ actions may have more impact than the governors’ limited travel bans. 
  
 This week PayPal announced it planned not to open a 400-person facility proposed for North Carolina and the NCAA may refrain from business there. Meanwhile, MGM Resorts International, Nissan, Toyota, Tyson Foods, AT&T and IBM have denounced the Mississippi law. 
  
 Minnesota Republican lawmakers are considering approval of a measure that would limit bathroom use to the users “biological sex.” Dayton said he would veto that bill in the unlikely case that it reaches his desk. |||||