Published on Oct 1, 2015 
  
 -- 
  
 Sign up here to get involved: http://hrc.io/2a8WbEj 
  
 Subscribe to The Briefing Youtube channel: http://hrc.io/1HtlY52 
  
 Like The Briefing on Facebook: http://hrc.io/1dPDO6R 
  
 Follow The Briefing on Twitter: http://hrc.io/1IRwNhU ||||| Rep. Kevin McCarthy appeared on Fox News Channel and commented on the Select Committee on Benghazi, suggesting the panel and its investigation brought Hillary Clinton's poll numbers down. Washington Post reporter Elise Viebeck explains why McCarthy's comment ended up getting him in trouble and being a win for Clinton. (Alice Li/The Washington Post) 
  
 Rep. Kevin McCarthy appeared on Fox News Channel and commented on the Select Committee on Benghazi, suggesting the panel and its investigation brought Hillary Clinton's poll numbers down. Washington Post reporter Elise Viebeck explains why McCarthy's comment ended up getting him in trouble and being a win for Clinton. (Alice Li/The Washington Post) 
  
 Hillary Rodham Clinton’s upcoming appearance before the U.S. House Select Committee on Benghazi was supposed to be a crucible: a chance for Republicans to prosecute the former secretary of state for her handling of the 2012 terrorist attacks that killed four Americans as well as for her use of a private e-mail server. 
  
 Instead, it may have turned into a political gift for Clinton following this week’s suggestion by the likely next House speaker, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), that the taxpayer-funded Benghazi investigation was politically motivated. Clinton’s allies say his comments will help recast Clinton’s scheduled Oct. 22 hearing as a partisan inquisition rather than a fact-finding mission about the attacks in Libya. 
  
 McCarthy boasted in two television interviews on Tuesday that the committee’s work already had achieved a desired result: Clinton’s decline in the polls. The statements riled Democrats by seeming to validate their suspicions about the probe, which led to the discovery of Clinton’s use of a private e-mail server — a controversy that has dogged her for seven months. 
  
 “The Benghazi committee has been a huge part of the e-mail story from the beginning, so it takes the entire e-mail story and admits to everybody that it’s in a political context,” said Steve Elmendorf, a Clinton supporter and former House aide. “Now I don’t know what they can do to make that hearing at all successful for Republicans.” 
  
 As strategist James Carville, a longtime Clinton ally, put it, “The thermostat has changed.” 
  
 View Graphic Catch up on the controversy and read the emails 
  
 The select committee’s chairman, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), has maintained that its work was a neutral examination of the Sept. 11, 2012, attacks. But McCarthy told Fox News host Sean Hannity: “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping. Why? Because she’s un-trustable. But no one would have known any of that had happened had we not fought.” 
  
 On Thursday morning, Senate Democratic leaders called on House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) to disband the committee. Boehner defended its work and insisted its aim is to “know the full truth about what happened” and “never” has been about Clinton. 
  
 On Thursday night, McCarthy said on Fox News that he had apologized to Gowdy and regrets his comments. “It was never my intention to ever imply that this committee was political, because we all know it is not,” he said. 
  
 McCarthy’s Tuesday comments on Fox News — which echoed remarks from a CNN interview earlier that day — raised concern among congressional Republicans about his political skills and preparedness to ascend to the top leadership position on Capitol Hill when Boehner steps down on Oct. 30. 
  
 “He has to learn a lesson which I found very difficult: When you move up to speaker, everything you say is like being a presidential candidate,” said former House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.). “Everything you say is national, everything you say is subject to scrutiny, and you simply have to be careful to say precisely what you intend and nothing more or less. It’s a transition problem.” 
  
 The affable McCarthy has cultivated tight relationships with fellow Republicans and has tended to internal House affairs. But with relatively scant legislative experience, McCarthy is now trying to step forward as a competent and politically sharp leader of his party. 
  
 Regardless, the controversy is unlikely to rupture McCarthy’s campaign for the top job. His lone opponent ahead of next Thursday’s leadership elections, Rep. Daniel Webster (R-Fla.), is a little-known conservative who won only 12 votes on the House floor when he tried to challenge Boehner earlier this year. 
  
 Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), chairman of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, heads to hear closed testimony last month from former Clinton aide Cheryl Mills about the Benghazi attacks. (Jim Lo Scalzo/EPA) 
  
 “This is one of those blips you wish hadn’t happened, but it’s not hurtful or crippling to McCarthy,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.). “The real driver of this story isn’t what any Republican congressman said; it’s the e-mails and the server.” 
  
 With Clinton struggling to gain momentum in the Democratic nominating fight, McCarthy’s comments amount to a unifying force for the party to rally to her defense, as well as give her an opening to do what she is most comfortable doing: fighting back against Republicans. 
  
 “I think it will pull people together,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to President Obama. “The e-mail situation is a complicated one. . . . All of that is gobbledygook to the American people, but political motivation is easily understood.” 
  
 David Brock, a Clinton ally who runs an assortment of Democratic groups that have aggressively defended her, said McCarthy’s suggestive comment “changes everything entirely.” 
  
 “To put it simply, the game is over, and they’ve lost,” Brock said. “This was supposed to be the big moment for Gowdy and his committee and instead what we have is the person who’s likely the next speaker validating everything critics have been saying. . . . Now everyone can see the fact that this has been a partisan charade all along.” 
  
 Looking ahead to the general election, Brock added: “With this clip, we now have the ad we want.” 
  
 Clinton and her campaign have responded aggressively. On Wednesday, she said in an interview with MSNBC host Al Sharpton that McCarthy’s comments were “deeply distressing.” 
  
 “When I hear a statement like that, which demonstrates unequivocally that this was always meant to be a partisan political exercise, I feel like it does a grave disservice and dishonors not just the memory of the four that we lost, but of everybody who has served our country,” Clinton said. 
  
 On Thursday, her campaign pushed out a video to supporters in which press secretary Brian Fallon, speaking from Brooklyn headquarters, says McCarthy exposed “a political farce.” 
  
 “This is a big deal,” Fallon says in the video. “This committee, masquerading as an attempt to look into the deaths of four brave Americans we lost at Benghazi, is actually a taxpayer-funded sham and they’re focused on only one thing: driving down Hillary Clinton’s poll numbers.” 
  
 On Capitol Hill on Thursday, GOP lawmakers called the episode a wake-up call and learning experience for McCarthy — and said he still needed to douse the fires. 
  
 “Kevin should call it back and say it was an obvious mistake,” said Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.), a Boehner ally. “You give Bill and Hillary Clinton an issue and they’re going to run with it. You’ve got to be on your guard and realize this is the big leagues, the World Series, and every error is magnified.” 
  
 Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), a committee chairman and close friend of Gowdy’s, said Thursday on MSNBC that McCarthy’s comments were “just absolutely inappropriate. They should be withdrawn. Mr. McCarthy should apologize.” 
  
 Other Republican lawmakers were less agitated, however. Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) said there was no need for McCarthy to apologize — a view he said other conservatives share. 
  
 “When I heard what he said, it didn’t light me up at all,” King said. “There is nothing wrong with saying that Benghazi has a political effect.” ||||| Team Hillary has found its opening. 
  
 After months of being dogged by the controversy surrounding her private email account, the 2016 Democratic contender and her supporters are taking the offensive against her congressional nemesis: the House Select Committee on Benghazi. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 They’re seizing on comments from Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) in which he boasted on national television that the panel’s work has hurt Hillary Clinton in the polls — a statement her supporters say vindicates their view that the panel is a politically motivated effort to damage her campaign. 
  
 Already, Republicans are distancing themselves from McCarthy’s remarks, even as he’s leading the race to be the next speaker of the House, and defending the panel they formed to investigate the 2012 attack on the Libya consulate. Democrats, on the other hand, have demanded that the panel be dissolved, with some Clinton allies even calling for McCarthy to abandon his bid to become speaker. 
  
 “The House established the Select Committee on Benghazi to investigate what happened before, during, and after the terrorist attack in Benghazi, and to ensure that justice is finally served,” outgoing House Speaker John Boehner said in a statement Thursday morning as McCarthy’s words continued to draw Democratic fire. “This investigation has never been about former Secretary of State Clinton and never will be.” 
  
 On Tuesday, McCarthy bragged to Fox News’ Sean Hannity that “everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi Special Committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping.” 
  
 The comments undermined House Benghazi Chairman Trey Gowdy’s (R-S.C.) efforts to keep his panel’s work focused on the Benghazi attacks and stay above the political fray. 
  
 But on Thursday, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) called for the disbandment of the panel, while David Brock’s Correct the Record group pounded McCarthy, demanding he withdraw his bid for speaker. 
  
 “According to the odds-on-favorite, future speaker of the House, the Benghazi special committee was put together to hurt Hillary Clinton politically,” Reid said. “This is evidence of what Democrats have said all along. … Senate Democratic Leadership sent a letter to Speaker Boehner asking that the Benghazi Select Committee be disbanded. It’s the right thing to do.” 
  
 Republicans, meanwhile, worked to cover for their future leader, saying McCarthy’s comments had been misconstrued and he was referring to the panel’s discovery that Clinton had used a private email server instead of a State.gov account while she was secretary of state. 
  
 “Kevin could have said it more eloquently, but what Kevin was trying to get at was: As a result of the truth that’s come out from the Benghazi hearings, it’s had an impact on the trustworthiness factor of Clinton,” said Rep. Steve Stivers (R-Ohio). “I don’t think he was trying to say the purpose was to go after Clinton.” 
  
 The Clinton campaign has spent months trying to defuse the email controversy, but it shows little sign of blowing over as Republicans press forward. The committee’s demand for Benghazi-related emails and documents exposed Clinton’s unusual private email server — a revelation that has triggered an FBI probe into whether classified information was ever put at risk. 
  
 At the crux of the debate is whether Republicans created the committee specifically to hurt Clinton or to seriously investigate the deaths of four Americans at the Benghazi diplomatic compound on Sept. 11, 2012. 
  
 Democrats, including Benghazi ranking member Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), call the entire committee a waste of taxpayer funds and "the longest and least productive investigation in congressional history." They note that several other committees have already probed the attacks and turned up nothing, and accuse the right of increasingly focusing on Clinton herself. 
  
 Republicans, however, maintain that their investigation has no political intent. 
  
 “We have interviewed over 50 witnesses, most of who have never been interviewed before, including people who are on the ground in Benghazi,” said panel Republican Susan Brooks of Indiana. “So this is not a political witch hunt. It is about getting all the facts out." 
  
 Jamal Ware, the Benghazi panel spokesman, responded to McCarthy's comments by saying that “people view the Benghazi Committee through whatever lens or spin they choose; meanwhile, the Benghazi Committee is focused on, and our work is driven by, the facts.” 
  
 Committee Republicans note that only four of the 50 witnesses they’ve interviewed have had connections to Clinton. They also argue that Gowdy has stayed focused on the attacks and has passed up opportunities to refocus his inquiry on the email controversy. The panel, for example, rarely comments on the controversial emails released by the State Department, such as Wednesday night's data dump. 
  
 “Trey has bent backwards and forwards and done somersaults to please the minority,” said Benghazi panel member Lynn Westmoreland. “And in fact he has even been criticized by some of his own members on not being tough enough." 
  
 The Georgia Republican said McCarthy misspoke, saying “I know what [McCarthy] was trying to say, but I don’t think he made it clear.” 
  
 But he accused Clinton backers of playing “gotcha” — taking the issue out of context and hammering it over and over and over again. 
  
 “The Bill Clinton-Hillary Clinton-Democratic strategy is: If you can’t fix the problem, shift the blame,” he said. 
  
 Out of context or not, Democrats and Clinton’s supporters got a much-needed boost from McCarthy’s quote — and they’re planning to run with it. 
  
 “[B]y admitting — in fact sir by bragging — that the [committee] is little more than a partisan cudgel intended to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, you have pulled back the curtain on your own party’s abuse of power and misuse of taxpayer funds to advance a nakedly political goal,” Brock, one of Clinton’s most vocal backers, wrote to McCarthy, asking him to withdraw from the speaker's race. “It’s abundantly clear that you intend to run your office like an annex of the [RNC]. … Frankly, that is evidence enough that you are unfit to lead.” 
  
 There's no indication that McCarthy's comments would hurt his leadership campaign. Indeed, Cummings said Thursday he is "not naïve in thinking Republicans will cease their political attacks on Secretary Clinton” and stop their probe altogether. 
  
 But that doesn't mean they won't whip out the new ammo McCarthy served them. In an interview with the Rev. Al Sharpton that is set to air on MSNBC this week, Clinton called the quote “deeply distressing.” 
  
 “When I hear a statement like that, which demonstrates unequivocally that this was always meant to be a partisan political exercise,” Clinton said, “I feel like it does a grave disservice and dishonors not just the memory of the four that we lost, but of everybody who has served our country.” ||||| WASHINGTON (AP) — House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy says it was never his intention to suggest that the House Benghazi committee was created to undercut Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton, and he regrets suggesting the panel's purpose is political. 
  
 FILE - In this Sept. 30, 2015 file photo, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of Calif., left, walks on Capitol Hill in Washington. McCarthy says he regrets comments suggesting the House special committee... (Associated Press) 
  
 In an interview on Fox News, the California Republican sought to quell controversy after boasting earlier this week that the Benghazi committee led to Hillary Rodham Clinton's drop in the polls. Democrats and some Republicans criticized his comments, and McCarthy acknowledged the flap has been a setback in his campaign to replace outgoing Speaker John Boehner of Ohio. 
  
 "This committee was set up for one sole purpose — to find the truth on behalf of the families for four dead Americans. I did not intend to imply in any way that that work is political. Of course it is not," McCarthy said. 
  
 He said he'd spoken with the chairman of the committee, Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C. "I told him I regret that this has ever taken place. It was never my intention." 
  
 "It's been a setback, yes, because I do not want to make that harm Benghazi committee in any way, because it's not political," McCarthy told Fox host Bret Baier Thursday night. 
  
 Republicans have expressed concern that McCarthy's initial comments undermine the work of the committee established to investigate the 2012 attacks on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, which occurred while Clinton was secretary of state. She is now the Democrats' leading presidential candidate, and she and other Democrats point to McCarthy's comments as proof that the true aim of the committee is to attack her politically. 
  
 Gowdy and other Republicans, including outgoing House Speaker John Boehner, have long been scrupulous about putting the committee's work in a fact-finding — not political — context. But McCarthy's comments give Democrats ammunition to attack the panel just weeks before Clinton is scheduled to testify in a long-awaited appearance Oct. 22. 
  
 In his initial comments that caused the controversy, McCarthy told Fox News Channel that since the House created the Benghazi committee, Clinton's popularity in public opinion polls has fallen. 
  
 "Why? Because she's untrustable. But no one would have known any of that had happened had we not fought and made that happen," he said. 
  
 McCarthy is still expected to win election as speaker, given the absence of a strong challenger. The House election will be held Oct. 8. |||||