Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's Jane O'Brien speaks to Smithsonian dinosaur expert Hans Sues about the discovery of the "chicken from hell" 
  
 US scientists have announced the discovery of a new species of dinosaur. Its fossils offer further clues to how the dinosaurs became extinct 66 million years ago. 
  
 Anzu wyliei is a strange, bird-like creature that has a bony crest on top of a beaky head and a long tail like a lizard. 
  
 The animal was identified from the partial remains of three skeletons collected in North and South Dakota. 
  
 It is reported in PLoS ONE journal. 
  
 It's clear that dinosaurs were still quite diverse until the very end Hans Sues, Smithsonian Institution 
  
 "We had inklings that there might be such a creature out there, but now with these bones we have 80% of the skeleton and can really look in detail at the structure of this animal and make inferences about its biology," says Hans Sues, curator of vertebrate palaeontology in the department of palaeobiology at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington DC. 
  
 "Anzu is really bizarre, even by dinosaur standards. 
  
 "The skull has this extraordinarily tall and thin crest with a snout and a huge beak with sharp edges and a strange sliding jaw joint," that could be used to cut up vegetation and meat, he says. 
  
 Diverse communities 
  
 The size of a small car, the dinosaur also had claws and feathers on its upper arms. It belongs to a group of dinosaurs known as Oviraptorosauria. Most evidence of their existence comes from fossils discovered in Central and East Asia. 
  
 The Anzu bones are the first detailed evidence that oviraptorosaurs also lived in North America. 
  
 The specimens were found in a geological formation known as Hell Creek, which has been extensively explored and is the source of many dinosaur fossils discovered in North America. 
  
 Scientists have nicknamed it "the chicken from Hell" because of its appearance and where it was found. 
  
 The site is important because it was formed in the last two million years of the Cretaceous Period, just before dinosaurs were wiped out by an asteroid strike. 
  
 Many researchers have argued that the dinosaurs were already in decline because of climate change. But according to Dr Sues and his team, the discovery of Anzu offers further proof that many species were still evolving and dinosaur communities were diverse and flourishing. 
  
 Image copyright Donald E Hurlbert Smithsonian Institution Image caption The Anzu wyliei skull, shown in a reconstruction, featured a bony crest 
  
 "This is consistent with the idea that a mass extinction was caused by the great asteroid impact 66 million years ago. It's clear that dinosaurs were still quite diverse until the very end," says Dr Sues. 
  
 A thousand species of dinosaurs have been discovered so far. Scientists believe there are many thousands more waiting to be identified, even in heavily excavated formations such as Hell Creek. 
  
 The discovery of another species from the site was announced in December last year - a small raptor called Acheroraptor temertyorum. And scientists have only begun to explore potential dinosaur graves in Central Asia. 
  
 Bones in ground 
  
 But there's no magic formula for discovery, according to Tyler Lyson, who found one of the Anzu skeletons in 2009 on his uncle's ranch in North Dakota. 
  
 "We were just walking along when we saw some dinosaur bones poking out of the ground," he recalls. 
  
 "I knew right away that they belonged to a meat-eating dinosaur because meat-eating dinosaurs have hollow bones, and these bones were hollow. We carefully made a plaster jacket to wrap the specimen and get it back to the lab. After several hours cleaning it, we knew we had found something new. It was unlike anything else we had ever seen before." 
  
 Dr Lyson is part of the Smithsonian team and the founder of the Marmarth Research Foundation, which promotes the study of fossils. He discovered his first dinosaur bone when he was just six years old. The other two Anzu skeletons, which include a skull, were discovered by private collectors. 
  
 "You just have to spend time out there," he says. "The bones come to the surface and then break up into little pieces. You get a trail of broken bits of bone which you follow, and if you're lucky you'll see bones sticking out of the side of the hill - and that's exactly what we found here." 
  
 Although the Anzu skeletons were discovered several years ago, scientists work in "deep time", says Dr Lyson. Bones have to be catalogued and compared with other specimens while scientific evidence has to be peer-reviewed. It can take a decade before any official announcement is made. 
  
 All three Anzu skeletons are housed at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, which collaborated with the Smithsonian to identify the new species. ||||| The fossilised remains of a bizarre, bird-like dinosaur, nicknamed the "chicken from hell" by scientists, have been unearthed in the US. 
  
 The 66-million-year-old feathered beast would have resembled a beefed-up emu with a long neck, a metre-long tail and a tall crest on its head. At the end of its forelimbs were long, sharp claws. The creature stood 1.5 metres high at the hip and reached more than three metres from beak to tail. Researchers believe it lived on ancient floodplains and fed on plants, small animals and possibly eggs. An adult weighed up to 300kg. 
  
 Researchers dug the remains from mudstone in the Hell Creek formation in North and South Dakota, where fossil hunters have previously excavated bones from Tyrannosaurus rex and triceratops. Over the past decade they have recovered three partial skeletons of the animal but until now had not recognised it as a new genus and species of a mysterious family of dinosaurs called Caenagnathidae. The fossils are being kept at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh. 
  
 Scientists working on the remains coined the "chicken from hell" monicker, which later influenced their choice of its more formal name, Anzu wyliei. Anzu is the name of a giant bird-like demon from ancient mythology. Wyliei comes from Wylie J Tuttle, the son of a donor who helps to fund research at the museum. 
  
 The animal belongs to a group called the oviraptorosaurs, which are mostly known from fossils found in central and east Asia but the remains provide the first detailed picture of the North American oviraptorosaurs. 
  
 "For almost a hundred years, the presence of oviraptorosaurs in North America was only known from a few bits of skeleton, and the details of their appearance and biology remained a mystery," said Hans-Dieter Sues, curator of vertebrate palaeontology at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. "With the discovery of A. wyliei, we finally have the fossil evidence to show what this species looked like and how it is related to other dinosaurs." 
  
 Anzu had the build of a fast runner and with substantial claws at the tips of its forelimbs was well-equipped to fight. A close inspection of the fossils revealed that two showed signs of skirmishes. One had a healed broken rib. Another had an arthritic toe that was probably caused by a tendon being ripped off the bone. The fossils are described in the journal Plos One. 
  
 An artist's impression of A. wyliei. Illustration: Bob Walters 
  
 "Whether these injuries were the result of combat between two individuals or an attack by a larger predator remains a mystery," said Emma Schachner, a palaeontologist at the University of Utah. 
  
 Anzu is not the largest of the oviraptorosaurs found to date. The aptly named Gigantoraptor discovered in Inner Mongolia in 2005 grew to around eight metres long and weighed more than a tonne. "We're finding that the caenagnathids were an amazingly diverse bunch of dinosaurs," said Matthew Lamanna at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
  
 "Whereas some were turkey-sized, others like Anzu and Gigantoraptor, were the kind of thing you definitely wouldn't want to meet in a dark alley." 
  
 "We jokingly call this thing the 'chicken from hell' and I think that's pretty appropriate," Lamanna added. 
  
 "These fossils are some of the most interesting new dinosaurs to come out of North America over the past decade," said Stephen Brusatte, a vertebrate palaeontologist at the University of Edinburgh. 
  
 "Oviraptorosaurs are one of the most bizarre groups of dinosaurs to ever live. This new dinosaur, Anzu, looks like something that was placed in the Cretaceous by a Hollywood monster movie director. Looking at these animals, it's hard to believe they were real. They had big crests on their skulls, a beak, no teeth, and a very bird-like skeleton." 
  
 Brusatte added that the new fossils provided a glimpse of what the skeleton of the North American oviraptorosaurus was like, and showed that they were highly unusual. "Anzu would have lived alongside T. rex, and believe it or not, T. rex was a close cousin. But Anzu was an entirely different type of dinosaur: a fast-running, ecological generalist that didn't quite fit the usual moulds of meat-eating or plant-eating dinosaur." |||||