The man claims he had sex with Julie Wadsworth up to 15 times, between the ages of 14 and 18, including once when her husband Tony joined in.
He told the jury he sent messages to Mrs Wadsworth years after the alleged abuse when "drunk, depressed, or down".
Julie, 60, and Tony Wadsworth, 69, deny assaulting seven boys in the 1990s.
For more on this story and other Birmingham news
The Wadsworths, from Broughton Astley, Leicestershire, who have worked for BBC Radio Leicester and BBC WM, deny five counts of outraging public decency between July 1992 and June 1996.
Mrs Wadsworth has pleaded not guilty to 12 charges of indecent assault and Mr Wadsworth denies 10 counts of the same offence.
The complainant, now in his 30s, told Warwick Crown Court: "I kept going back when the abuse was happening.
"I didn't really want to do that. Afterwards I felt guilty, it was terrible."
Mrs Wadsworth's barrister David Hislop claimed the accuser became angry because the radio star "rejected" his advances when he contacted her on Facebook and by email years later.
The complainant replied: "Yeah, I was probably too old."
The man also denied the barrister's claims he had become "wholly obsessed" with Mrs Wadsworth and that he reported the couple to police only after his "heartfelt" messages were ignored.
The man replied: "I had occasionally [become obsessed] - when I was drunk, depressed, or down.
"When I looked back on it and would crave it [sex]."
"It's probably why you're meant to have sex with underage kids isn't it, because that is what it does to them."
He has told the jury he reported his allegations to police after receiving professional child protection training.
In a Facebook message he sent to Mrs Wadsworth in 2015, he said he wanted to meet her.
It read: "Been years - I still look back very fondly on fun times xx."
Another said: "I hope you don't see me as a stalker or a nuisance or anything like that - I'm a genuine guy and do really look back fondly on our time.
"I learnt a hell of a lot during our friendly chats."
The man said he deleted the messages, hoping they were unread.
The trial continues.