Belgian officials have grown so worried about the country’s nuclear power plants that the government has been advised to let everyone living within a 100-kilometer radius of the plants be issued with iodine pills. This is basically the entire population. 
  
 The recommendation was made by Health Minister Maggie De Block, who said the current legislation, which gives iodine pills to Belgians within a 20-kilometer radius, is inadequate and should be extended to 100 kilometers, according to La Libre daily. 
  
 De Block mentioned that the whole of Belgium is located within 100 kilometers of a nuclear power plant and therefore the tablets should be made available to everyone. 
  
 In a separate move, in March, the Dutch government decided it would give iodine tablets to people under the age of 18 and pregnant women living in a 100-kilometer radius of a nuclear power plant, the Dutch broadcast NOS reported. 
  
 In case of a nuclear disaster, the iodine tablets can help to alleviate the effects of Iodine-131, which is one of the most harmful radioactive elements that can be released, despite it having a half-life of just eight days. 
  
 Iodine-131 caused around 5,000 deaths from thyroid cancer following the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in 1986. 
  
 Jean-Marc Nollet, a Belgian politician from the Ecolo Party, which focuses on introducing green policies, is supportive of the move, but also adds that it is not enough. 
  
 “The government is finally accepting the recommendation of the Health Ministry. Given the population density and the risk of a nuclear disaster, this was absolutely necessary,” he said, as cited by La Libre. 
  
 “The only solution is to respect the original plan and not extend the lifespan of Doel 1 and Doel 2 [nuclear power plants] and suspend the restarting of the cracked reactors at Doel 3 and Tihange 2, which has been requested by Germany, Luxembourg and many ordinary citizens,” Nollet added. 
  
 Read more 
  
 German Environment Minister Barbara Hendricks urged Belgium on April 20 to take its Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors offline “until open safety questions are cleared up.” German officials have expressed concerns over the safety of the reactor pressure vessels. 
  
 Taking the reactors offline “would be a strong precautionary signal and would show that Belgium takes the concerns of its German neighbors seriously,” Hendricks said in a statement. 
  
 The operator of the reactors, Electrabel – the Belgian unit of Engie –said it was surprised by the request. 
  
 “We have proven that the reactor vessels are safe and it’s the result of a very long process of research that has been evaluated and confirmed by experts in Belgium and abroad...” Electrabel spokeswoman Geetha Kayaert told Bloomberg. 
  
 In March, 30 major cities in three EU countries came together to try and force the Belgian government to shut down the Tihange 2 and Doel 3 reactors, which are responsible for producing about 60 percent of Belgium’s electricity. 
  
 The city of Aachen even threatened to sue the Tihange plant due to the safety risk that it posed. Tihange is around 70 kilometers away from the German city. 
  
 The two reactors at Tihange and Doel were taken offline in 2012 after defects were found in the walls of the reactors' pressure vessels. AFCN cleared their re-start in November, saying the cracks were hydrogen flakes trapped in the walls of the reactor tank and had no major impact on safety. 
  
 Second Fukushima? Belgium relaunches nuclear reactor, Germany angered & afraid https://t.co/UMiuSlqJp4pic.twitter.com/pJyUaOAqtG — RT (@RT_com) December 16, 2015 
  
 Also in March, the newspaper Dernier Heure reported that the Brussels suicide bombers Khalid and Ibrahim El Bakraoui were planning attacks on Belgian nuclear power stations. The brothers planted a hidden camera in front of the home of the director of the Belgian nuclear research program, the paper said. 
  
 Shortly after the fatal Brussels attacks, personnel from Belgium’s two nuclear power stations in Doel and Tihange were evacuated, while soldiers were placed on site to beef up security. ||||| What is Potassium Iodide (KI)? 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) is a salt of stable (not radioactive) iodine that can help block radioactive iodine from being absorbed by the thyroid gland, thus protecting this gland from radiation injury. 
  
 The thyroid gland is the part of the body that is most sensitive to radioactive iodine. 
  
 People should take KI (potassium iodide) only on the advice of public health or emergency management officials. There are health risks associated with taking KI. 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) does not keep radioactive iodine from entering the body and cannot reverse the health effects caused by radioactive iodine once the thyroid is damaged. 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) only protects the thyroid, not other parts of the body, from radioactive iodine. 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) cannot protect the body from radioactive elements other than radioactive iodine—if radioactive iodine is not present, taking KI is not protective and could cause harm. 
  
 Table salt and foods rich in iodine do not contain enough iodine to block radioactive iodine from getting into your thyroid gland. Do not use table salt or food as a substitute for KI. 
  
 Do not use dietary supplements that contain iodine in the place of KI (potassium iodide). They can be harmful and non-efficacious. Only use products that have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 How does KI (potassium iodide) work? 
  
 The thyroid gland cannot tell the difference between stable and radioactive iodine. It will absorb both. 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) blocks radioactive iodine from entering the thyroid. When a person takes KI, the stable iodine in the medicine gets absorbed by the thyroid. Because KI contains so much stable iodine, the thyroid gland becomes “full” and cannot absorb any more iodine—either stable or radioactive—for the next 24 hours. 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) may not give a person 100% protection against radioactive iodine. Protection will increase depending on three factors. 
  
 Time after contamination: The sooner a person takes KI, the more time the thyroid will have to “fill up” with stable iodine. 
  
 The sooner a person takes KI, the more time the thyroid will have to “fill up” with stable iodine. Absorption: The amount of stable iodine that gets to the thyroid depends on how fast KI is absorbed into the blood. 
  
 The amount of stable iodine that gets to the thyroid depends on how fast KI is absorbed into the blood. Dose of radioactive iodine: Minimizing the total amount of radioactive iodine a person is exposed to will lower the amount of harmful radioactive iodine the thyroid can absorb. 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 Who can take KI (potassium iodide)? 
  
 The thyroid glands of a fetus and of an infant are most at risk of injury from radioactive iodine. Young children and people with low amounts of iodine in their thyroid are also at risk of thyroid injury. 
  
 Infants (including breast-fed infants) 
  
 Infants have the highest risk of getting thyroid cancer after being exposed to radioactive iodine. All infants, including breast-fed infants need to be given the dosage of KI (potassium iodide) recommended for infants. 
  
 Infants (particularly newborns) should receive a single dose of KI. More than a single dose may lead to later problems with normal development. Other protective measures should be used. 
  
 In cases where more than one dose is necessary, medical follow up may be necessary. 
  
 Children 
  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends that all children internally contaminated with (or likely to be internally contaminated with) radioactive iodine take KI (potassium iodide), unless they have known allergies to iodine (contraindications). 
  
 Young Adults 
  
 The FDA recommends that young adults (between the ages of 18 and 40 years) internally contaminated with (or likely to be internally contaminated with) radioactive iodine take the recommended dose of KI (potassium iodide). Young adults are less sensitive to the effects of radioactive iodine than are children. 
  
 Pregnant Women 
  
 Because all forms of iodine cross the placenta, pregnant women should take KI (potassium iodide) to protect the growing fetus. Pregnant women should take only one dose of KI following internal contamination with (or likely internal contamination with) radioactive iodine. 
  
 Breastfeeding Women 
  
 Women who are breastfeeding should take only one dose of KI (potassium iodide) if they have been internally contaminated with (or are likely to be internally contaminated with) radioactive iodine. They should be prioritized to receive other protective action measures. 
  
 Adults 
  
 Adults older than 40 years should not take KI (potassium iodide) unless public health or emergency management officials say that contamination with a very large dose of radioactive iodine is expected. 
  
 Adults older than 40 years have the lowest chance of developing thyroid cancer or thyroid injury after contamination with radioactive iodine. 
  
 Adults older than 40 are more likely to have allergic reactions to or adverse effects from KI. 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 How is KI (potassium iodide) given? 
  
 The FDA has approved two different forms of KI (potassium iodide), tablets and liquid, that people can take by mouth after a radiation emergency involving radioactive iodine. 
  
 Tablets come in two strengths, 130 milligram (mg) and 65 mg. The tablets have lines on them so that they may be cut into smaller pieces for lower doses. 
  
 For the oral liquid solution, each milliliter (mL) contains 65 mg of KI (potassium iodide). 
  
 According to the FDA, the following doses are appropriate to take after internal contamination with (or likely internal contamination with) radioactive iodine: 
  
 Newborns from birth to 1 month of age should be given 16 mg (¼ of a 65 mg tablet or ¼ mL of solution). This dose is for both nursing and non-nursing newborn infants. 
  
 Infants and children between 1 month and 3 years of age should take 32 mg (½ of a 65 mg tablet OR ½ mL of solution). This dose is for both nursing and non-nursing infants and children. 
  
 Children between 3 and 18 years of age should take 65 mg (one 65 mg tablet OR 1 mL of solution). Children who are adult size (greater than or equal to 150 pounds) should take the full adult dose, regardless of their age. 
  
 Adults should take 130 mg (one 130 mg tablet OR two 65 mg tablets OR two mL of solution). 
  
 Women who are breastfeeding should take the adult dose of 130 mg. 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 How often should KI (potassium iodide) be taken? 
  
 Taking a stronger dose of KI (potassium iodide), or taking KI more often than recommended, does not offer more protection and can cause severe illness or death. 
  
 A single dose of KI (potassium iodide) protects the thyroid gland for 24 hours. A one-time dose at recommended levels is usually all that is needed to protect the thyroid gland. 
  
 In some cases, people can be exposed to radioactive iodine for more than 24 hours. If that happens, public health or emergency management officials may tell you to take one dose of KI (potassium iodide) every 24 hours for a few days. 
  
 Avoid repeat dosing with KI (potassium iodide) for pregnant and breastfeeding women and newborn infants. 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 What are the side effects of KI (potassium iodide)? 
  
 Side effects of KI (potassium iodide) may include stomach or gastro-intestinal upset, allergic reactions, rashes, and inflammation of the salivary glands. 
  
 When taken as recommended, KI (potassium iodide) can cause rare adverse health effects related to the thyroid gland. 
  
 These rare adverse effects are more likely if a person: 
  
 Takes a higher than recommended dose of KI 
  
 Takes the drug for several days 
  
 Has a pre-existing thyroid disease. 
  
 Newborn infants (less than 1 month old) who receive more than one dose of KI (potassium iodide) are at risk for developing a condition known as hypothyroidism (thyroid hormone levels that are too low). If not treated, hypothyroidism can cause brain damage. 
  
 Infants who receive more than a single dose of KI should have their thyroid hormone levels checked and monitored by a doctor. 
  
 Avoid repeat dosing of KI to newborns. 
  
 Back to Top 
  
 Where can I get KI (potassium iodide)? 
  
 KI (potassium iodide) is available without a prescription. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) External Web Site Icon has approved some brands of KI. 
  
 People should only take KI (potassium iodide) on the advice of public health or emergency management officials. There are health risks associated with taking KI. 
  
 More detailed information on KI (potassium iodide) can be found at the FDA Website. 
  
 Back to Top ||||| The entire population of Belgium is to be issued with a ration of iodine tablets, months after warnings about the threat of Isil building a dirty bomb. 
  
 Iodine pills, which help reduce radiation build-up in the thyroid gland, had previously only been issued to people living within 20km (14 miles) of the Tihange and Doel nuclear plants. 
  
 Maggie De Block, the Health Minister, said that would be extended to 100km, covering the whole country of 11 million people, following advice from an expert council. 
  
 The pills will be sent to pharmacies, and the public would be ordered to collect their ration in the event of a meltdown. Children, pregnant women and those breast-feeding would be given priority. 
  
 It emerged following last month’s terrorist attacks that an Isil cell may have been plotting to kidnap a nuclear expert in order to build a “dirty bomb”. Eleven nuclear workers had their passes revoked. |||||