Comedian, actress, artist, and author Phyllis Diller died Monday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 95. 
  
 “She was a true pioneer,” Diller’s longtime agent Fred Wostbrock told EW. “She was the first lady of stand up comedy. She paved the way for everybody. And she conquered television, movies, Broadway, record albums, nightclubs, books, and radio. She did it all. A true pioneer.” 
  
 The housewife-turned-advertising copywriter and mother of six got her big showbiz break in 1955 at the age of 37 when the owner of San Francisco’s now-defunct Purple Onion nightclub gave her a substitute stand-up spot one night. “When I went on, the room went totally quiet and I knew that I had this magnetic thing that you had to be born with,” Diller told EW in 2005. “You can’t buy it or even learn it.” Diller’s shtick — often revolving around her pathetic fictional husband “Fang” and her less-than-gorgeous looks (“I love to go to the doctor. Where else would a man look at me and say, ‘Take off your clothes?’”) — quickly made her famous. She became a legend to generations of female comics (“To a lot of us she was better than Bob Hope,” Roseanne Barr told EW). 
  
 In the 1960s and ’70s, Diller became a frequent guest on The Tonight Show, The Flip Wilson Show, and Laugh-In, though TV series meant to showcase the comic (The Phyllis Diller Show, The Beautiful Phyllis Diller Show) never took off. She continued to get work as she got older, appearing in movies like A Bug’s Life as well as TV shows such as Family Guy, 7th Heaven, and The Drew Carey Show. In 2005, the same year she published her autobiography (Like a Lampshade in a Whorehouse), she appeared along with Sarah Silverman and Bob Saget in the humor documentary The Aristocrats, proving that even 88-year-olds can tell dirty jokes — in her case, in a typically zany wig and punctuated by her trademark cackle of a laugh. 
  
 Read more: 
  
 Phyllis Diller gets the last laugh 
  
 Scott McKenzie, singer of ‘San Francisco,’ dies 
  
 ‘Top Gun’ director Tony Scott dies at age 68 in apparent suicide 
  
 Ron Palillo of ‘Welcome Back, Kotter’ dies of heart attack ||||| Comedian Phyllis Diller, known for her self-deprecating humor, died "peacefully in her sleep" at her Los Angeles home Monday morning, her manager told CNN. Diller was 95. 
  
 "Her son, Perry, found her with a smile on her face," Milt Suchin said. 
  
 Diller , who paved the way for female comedians, began her legendary stand-up comedy career at the age of 37. 
  
 "We lost a comedy legend today," comedian Ellen DeGeneres tweeted. "Phyllis Diller was the queen of the one-liners. She was a pioneer." 
  
 Diller's career as a stand-up comic skyrocketed in the 1960s, partly because of her many appearances with Bob Hope on his television specials and USO tours. Diller remained good friends with Hope until his death. 
  
 iReport: Phyllis Diller original paintings 
  
 She became a pop culture icon for her disparaging jokes about her looks, her cooking and her husband "Fang." 
  
 "She was a true pioneer," said talent agent Fred Wostbrock. "She was the first lady of stand-up comedy. She paved the way for everybody. She paved the way for Joan Rivers, Chelsea Handler, Roseanne Barr, Ellen Degeneres, and all the women stand-up comics. She was the first and the best." 
  
 Comedian Whoopi Goldberg tweeted that she was said the world lost a funny, classy and smart woman like Diller. 
  
 "A true original has died," Goldberg tweeted, adding that there was nobody who looked or sounded like her. 
  
 Diller's first appearance on TV was as a contestant on Groucho Marx's show "You Bet Your Life." 
  
 Diller was also known her for hilarious roasts of major personalities. You can watch her roast Ronald Reagan here: 
  
 Obituaries 2012: The lives they've lived 
  
 EW.com: 'She was a true pioneer' |||||