Wanted: one hairdresser. Must be willing to withstand temperatures that can drop as low as -50°C (-58F) and be able to rectify years of DIY trims and amateur styling. 
  
 After two years of making do without a hairdresser, the isolated northern Canadian town of Norman Wells in the Northwest Territories – population 800 – is going public with their plight in the hope of attracting a coiffeur. 
  
 “It’s been a long struggle for us,” said Nicky Richards, the economic development officer leading the recruitment effort for this town that sits near the southern edge of the Arctic Circle. “We just don’t have anyone. It’s something that people down south don’t even ever think about because they don’t have to worry about it.” 
  
 Many residents have had to turn to family members to cut their hair or attempt to do it themselves. “We’re trying to figure out ways to maintain ourselves,” said Richards, who regularly gives the same buzz cut to her husband, a friend and her boss. “I’m not a hairdresser by any set of means, but I do have a set of clippers and that’s what I use,” she told the Guardian. 
  
  
  
 When it comes to her own long locks, Richards prefers to hold out, taking advantage of out-of-town trips to schedule hair appointments. It’s not the most practical solution, given that the nearest hairdressers are at least a 17-hour drive away, or a four-hour daily flight to Edmonton, in Alberta, costing upwards of C$800 ($577/£400) each way. 
  
 Many in town simply let their hair grow, constantly testing the limits of how long they can hold out. “I was in desperate need of a haircut,” resident Ryan Spurrell told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. “So we just did it … in the front yard there, down by the parking lot, with a pair of sheep shears and some scissors.” 
  
 Over the decades, several hairdressers have come and gone from Norman Wells, leaving behind a workspace in a local inn outfitted with chairs, mirrors and a sink. It’s currently available for lease, meaning any entrepreneurial hairstylist need only bring their tools and products. As the town serves as a hub for several surrounding communities, the potential clients number in the few thousand. 
  
 The recruitment effort will hopefully get people thinking about the varied business opportunities available in Canada’s north, said Susan Colbeck, who works at the local branch of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, while also solving a longstanding grievance. “We definitely need someone. Anyone who came here would be loved so much.” 
  
  
  
 Since Richards began spreading the word, the town has heard from a few interested people. The first thing she does is ensure they know what life in this small town entails. “It’s a beautiful town, everybody knows everybody,” she said. “But it has its challenges.” 
  
  
  
 Most food products must be flown in, resulting in prices as high as C$8 for two litres (4.2 pints) of milk. “And there’s lots of times when we will actually go without stuff because we’re waiting for the planes to come in, or stock might get bumped or the plane didn’t come in that day.” 
  
  
  
 As oil drives much of the industry around town, the plunging price of oil has taken an economic toll on residents in recent months, while services often available in larger municipalities, such as daycare, are non-existent. 
  
 And then there is the cold. “It’s only hit 40 below [zero] about three times this winter,” said Richards, calling it one of the warmest winters in recent memory. “Sometimes we will have a good 40 or 50 below spell for a week or two at a time. So you’re either going to love it or hate it, I suppose.” ||||| It's a situation that people in Norman Wells, N.W.T., call "desperate." It's threatening relationships, creating messes and, worst of all, it's making for some really bad haircuts. 
  
 The town hasn't had a permanent hairdresser in years. 
  
 Jason Balski recently played hairdresser, using the clippers to cut Landon Kozma’s hair. (Submitted by Nicky Richards) 
  
 "Whenever I get out of town, that's like the first thing, 'Oh my God! I'm going to get my hair done!'" laughs Nicky Richards, the economic development officer for the town of about 800 people. 
  
 It's a unique, small-town problem, something people in Norman Wells say they took for granted when they had a permanent hairstylist. 
  
 Richards says she's going public with their plight, in hopes of attracting the right person, and improving local 'dos. 
  
 "We have a couple of shaggy people around here for sure," she says. 
  
 "I cut my boss's hair all the time. We had a friend that lived out in the bush that every time he'd come in I'd cut his hair. I cut my husband's hair. 
  
 "But I mean, it's just with the clippers, I'm not a hairdresser, so everybody's got the same kind of buzzed haircut!" 
  
 'Pretty desperate' 
  
 According to Richards, most people wait months to deal with their shaggy manes when they travel south. Otherwise, they're doing it themselves, or handing the scissors to trusted friends. 
  
 "Especially women, they turn to trying to dye their own hair with the box dyes," Richards says, "which is usually a mess and nobody ever wants to do that. 
  
 "Everybody likes to go to their hairdresser and get their hair done," she says. 
  
 Syrah Ball, who works for the Town of Norman Wells, says she's thankful she can trim her own long locks without too much risk. 
  
 "I know a lot of the guys in town have tried their own clippers on their hair. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't," Ball laughs. 
  
 "I've tried to do it for them sometimes too, but I don't feel comfortable," she says. "I don't want to be responsible for that if it turns out bad." 
  
 Ryan Spurrell, who works at North-Wright Air, says he took matters into his own hands last spring and shaved off his shaggy mane. (Submitted by Nicky Richards) 
  
 Ryan Spurrell is one such friend. Ball watched him take matters into his own hands last spring. 
  
 "I was in desperate need of a haircut," Spurrell laughs. "So we just did it in Syrah's front yard there, down by the parking lot, with a pair of sheep shears and some scissors." 
  
 But not having a regular hairdresser doesn't seem to faze him as much as the others. 
  
 "It was fine by me, I really didn't care." 
  
 Space available 
  
 Richards says the town has a spot that a hairdresser could walk right into, at the Yamouri Inn, complete with a chair, mirror and sink. The coiffure would just have to pay a reasonable monthly rent. 
  
 Nicky Richards points to her dark roots in this photo. 'That’s usually the norm for my hair until I get down south!' she says. (Submitted by Nicky Richards) 
  
 "I know that the hairdressers that were here before, on a long-term basis, were always busy," Richards says, because they also service the surrounding communities of Colville Lake, Fort Good Hope, Deline and Tulita. 
  
 "When anybody from the whole region needs their hair cut, they come here," she says. 
  
 Richards has been spreading the word and encouraging other townspeople to do the same. 
  
 "Whoever's doing my hair [down South], I'm like 'gee you should come to Norman Wells,'" she laughs. 
  
 Richards says it would be a great opportunity for someone to come for a year or two, but until then, she'll have to wait until her next trip south to get her hair done. 
  
 "I'm going to have six months worth of roots that needs to be done!" |||||