England were the first team to book their place through qualification, followed by Iceland, the Czech Republic and Austria.
But there are still plenty of intriguing storylines in play, with some of the continent's biggest names in danger of missing out.
There are still 19 places up for grabs - with 14 determined by teams finishing in the top two in their group, another spot to the nation finishing third with the most points and four from play-off ties.
BBC Sport runs the rule over who needs what to qualify.
Already qualified: Iceland, Czech Republic
Can finish third: Turkey, Netherlands
Out of contention: Latvia, Kazakhstan
Remaining fixtures: 10 October - Iceland v Latvia, Kazakhstan v Netherlands, Czech Republic v Turkey. 13 October - Latvia v Kazakhstan, Netherlands v Czech Republic, Turkey v Iceland.
Who needs what: Iceland and the Czech Republic have already secured the automatic qualifying spots in this group, meaning only the play-off place for third remains up for grabs.
After a series of damaging defeats, including a 3-0 loss to Turkey in the last round of matches, 1988 European champions the Netherlands no longer have even that fate in their own hands.
Danny Blind's side may have to win their final two matches, against Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic, and hope Turkey, who face the Czechs and Iceland, suffer a defeat. But one win will be enough for Netherlands if Turkey lose both of their final two games.
Four points from their last two matches will see Turkey take the play-off spot by virtue of their superior head-to-head record against the Dutch.
Already qualified: No-one
Can still finish in the top two: Wales, Belgium, Israel,
Also in play-off contention: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cyprus
Out of contention: Andorra
Remaining fixtures: 10 October - Andorra v Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina v Wales, Israel v Cyprus. 13 October - Belgium v Israel, Cyprus v Bosnia-Herzegovina, Wales v Andorra.
Who needs what: One point from their final two matches against Bosnia-Herzegovina and Andorra will take Wales through to their first major tournament finals since 1958. Belgium need two points from their last two games, against Andorra and Israel, to book their place in France.
In order to qualify automatically, Israel most likely must win their last two matches, against Cyprus and Belgium, and hope that either Wales or Belgium slip up against Andorra. Otherwise, Eli Guttman's Israel side can hang on to the third-place play-off spot by claiming four points from their final two games, or getting within two points of Bosnia-Herzegovina's tally from the final two matches.
Bosnia-Herzegovina have an inferior head-to-head record against Israel, so they must win their final two matches and hope Israel lose one to claim the play-off spot.
Cyprus must win their final two games - against Israel and Bosnia-Herzegovina - and hope that Israel get no more than a draw from their other match. In that event they would claim the play-off place.
Already qualified: No-one
Can still finish in the top two: Spain, Slovakia, Ukraine
Out of contention: Belarus, Luxembourg, Macedonia
Remaining fixtures: 9 October - Macedonia v Ukraine, Slovakia v Belarus, Spain v Luxembourg. 12 October - Belarus v Macedonia, Luxembourg v Slovakia, Ukraine v Spain.
Who needs what: If reigning European champions Spain beat Luxembourg in their penultimate match they are through. If they lose or draw that match, they must only avoid defeat against Ukraine in their final match. In the unlikely event that they lose both games, Spain will still go through automatically unless Ukraine win both their final matches and Slovakia win one.
Slovakia will go through automatically if they can win one of their last two games against Belarus and Luxembourg, or get within three points of Ukraine's tally from the final two rounds.
Ukraine are assured of at least a play-off spot. To book an automatic qualifying place, they must win both their final matches and hope Slovakia fail to win either. If Slovakia lose both matches, four more points will be enough to take Ukraine through.
Already qualified: No-one
Can still finish in the top two: Germany, Poland, Republic of Ireland
Also in play-off contention: Scotland
Out of contention: Georgia, Gibraltar
Remaining fixtures: 8 October - Georgia v Gibraltar, Rep Ireland v Germany, Scotland v Poland. 11 October - Germany v Georgia, Gibraltar v Scotland, Poland v Rep Ireland.
Who needs what: World Cup winners Germany had a slow start to the group, but now a point against the Republic of Ireland in Dublin in their next game will secure a place in France.
Poland can join them in the finals with a win in Scotland on 8 October - if the Republic fail to beat Germany.
The best Scotland can hope for is to finish third - and it is extraordinarily unlikely they will do so with enough points to claim the one automatic qualification place available to the highest-ranked team finishing in that position.
Scotland play Poland and Gibraltar in their remaining games and need at least four points from those two fixtures. However, their fate is no longer in their own hands. Full details of Scotland's prospects of qualification are available here.
Already qualified: England
Can still finish in the top two: Switzerland, Slovenia, Estonia
Also in play-off contention: Lithuania
Out of contention: San Marino
Remaining fixtures: 9 October - England v Estonia, Slovenia v Lithuania, Switzerland v San Marino. 12 October - Estonia v Switzerland, Lithuania v England, San Marino v Slovenia.
Who needs what: England were the first team to qualify and boast the only 100% record.
Switzerland are favourites to join them in France next summer, but to be certain of reaching the tournament they will want to gain four points from their remaining fixtures to sew up second place.
That is because Slovenia - in third - hold the head-to-head advantage over Switzerland and would qualify if the sides were to finish level on points. If Slovenia beat Lithuania the battle for automatic qualification will go to the final game.
Estonia have to beat England and Switzerland and hope the Swiss and Slovenia lose both their remaining games to have any chance of automatic qualification - they could take a play-off place with two wins if Switzerland lose to San Marino or Slovenia fail to beat either Lithuania or San Marino. Four points could also be enough for a play-off spot, but only if Slovenia fail to get more than a point from their two remaining matches.
Already qualified: No-one
Can still finish in the top two: Northern Ireland, Romania, Hungary
Also in play-off contention: Finland
Out of contention: Faroe Islands, Greece
Remaining fixtures: 8 October - Hungary v Faroe Islands, Northern Ireland v Greece, Romania v Finland. 11 October - Faroe Islands v Romania, Finland v Northern Ireland, Greece v Hungary.
Who needs what: Two points from their final two games against Greece and Finland will secure qualification for Northern Ireland. A win at home to Greece on 8 October will be enough to book Michael O'Neill's side a place in France.
Second-placed Romania have an inferior head-to-head record to Hungary - in third - but can secure qualification with wins against Finland and the Faroe Islands.
A slip-up in either game could let Hungary in. The Hungarians finish with games against the Faroe Islands and Greece.
As for Finland, defeat by Romania would end their hopes of a top-three finish. Two wins could still see them in the play-offs if Hungary fail to beat either the Faroe Islands or Greece.
Already qualified: Austria
Can still finish in the top two: Russia, Sweden, Montenegro
Out of contention: Liechtenstein, Moldova
Remaining fixtures: 9 October - Liechtenstein v Sweden, Moldova v Russia, Montenegro v Austria. 12 October - Austria v Liechtenstein, Russia v Montenegro, Sweden v Moldova.
Who needs what: Fabio Capello may have been sacked this summer but a thumping 7-0 win last time out has put Leonid Slutsky's Russia in the best seat for the second qualification place behind Austria.
If Russia win in Moldova, and both Sweden and Montenegro drop points, the Russians will qualify with a game to spare.
Sweden - in what could be forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic's final chance at a major tournament - are two points behind Russia with games against Liechtenstein and Moldova remaining.
Montenegro could still qualify automatically with a win over Russia in their final game, if they beat Austria first and Russia lose to Moldova. Failing that, they could pip Sweden to third with two wins, but only if Sweden pick up less than four points from their final two games.
Already qualified: No-one
Can still finish in the top two: Italy, Norway, Croatia
Also in play-off contention: Bulgaria
Out of contention: Azerbaijan, Malta
Remaining fixtures: 10 October - Azerbaijan v Italy, Norway v Malta, Croatia v Bulgaria. 13 October - Bulgaria v Azerbaijan, Italy v Norway, Malta v Croatia.
Who needs what: Italy and Norway are sure to finish in the top three and should Italy, who face Azerbaijan on 10 October, match third-placed Croatia's result against Bulgaria on the same day, then they will qualify for the finals.
Second-placed Norway take on Malta at home, but then face Italy in their final game in the group, so may need to rely on Croatia not taking six points from their final two matches against Bulgaria and Malta. Croatia have the better head-to-head record and would progress if the two sides finish level.
Bulgaria's only hope for a play-off place is to beat Croatia by a better scoreline than 1-0, and then beat Azerbaijan in the final match and hope Croatia lose to Malta, which would allow them to pip Ante Cacic's Croatia side on the head-to-head record.
Already qualified: No-one.
Can still finish in the top two: Portugal, Denmark, Albania
Out of contention: Armenia, Serbia
Remaining fixtures: 8 October - Albania v Serbia, Portugal v Denmark. 11 October - Armenia v Albania, Serbia v Portugal.
Who needs what: A draw for group leaders Portugal against second-placed Denmark on 8 October will be good enough for forward Cristiano Ronaldo and his countrymen to qualify from the only five-team group. Even if they lose and Albania beat Serbia, Portugal can guarantee qualification with a win over Serbia in their final game. Only two defeats and other results going against them would see them in a play-off.
If Denmark don't beat Portugal, then Albania can book a top-two finish along with Portugal with victory against Serbia. If Albania lose though and Denmark win, the Danes and Portuguese will qualify and Albania will be third and in the play-offs.