Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. 
  
 Steve Wynn, the billionaire casino magnate, resigned as finance chair of the Republican National Committee on Saturday following a report of widespread misconduct allegations. 
  
 Wynn, who has donated millions to the Republican Party, was accused sexual misconduct by people who have worked at his Las Vegas casinos, according to a report in The Wall Street Journal on Friday. The report detailed a pattern of behavior that spans decades and included accusations by employees that they were coerced by him to perform sex acts. 
  
 "Effective today I am resigning as Finance Chairman of the RNC. The unbelievable success we have achieved must continue. The work we are doing to make America a better place is too important to be impaired by this distraction. I thank the President for the opportunity to serve and wish him continued success," Wynn said in a statement to NBC News Saturday. 
  
 Wynn, who President Donald Trump has called "a great friend," has denied the allegations made in the Wall Street Journal article. 
  
 "The idea that I ever assaulted any woman is preposterous," Wynn, 76, said in a statement provided to NBC News on Friday. "We find ourselves in a world where people can make allegations, regardless of the truth, and a person is left with the choice of weathering insulting publicity or engaging in multi-year lawsuits." 
  
 The board of directors of Wynn Resorts is also conducting a review and said it met Friday and formed a special committee of the board "comprised solely of independent directors" to investigate the allegations. 
  
 It is not clear who will replace Wynn, but RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement she accepted Wynn's resignation. 
  
 "Today I accepted Steve Wynn's resignation as Republican National Committee Finance Chair," she said. 
  
 President Trump spoke to McDaniel about Wynn’s future aboard Air Force One while returning from the World Economic Forum in Switzerland on Friday, and he was apprised of the final decision before it was announced publicly on Saturday, according to sources with direct knowledge of the conversation. 
  
 After the allegations surfaced on Friday, shares of Wynn Resorts sharply fell about 10 percent. 
  
 Democrats had been pressuring Republican lawmakers and organizations to sever ties with Wynn and return his donations. 
  
 On Sunday, Rep. Karen Handel donated $2,700 in contributions she received from Wynn during her special elections race to the nonprofit liveSafe Resources, a spokesperson said. The organization helps those hurt by domestic violence, sexual assault and elder abuse. 
  
 Sabrina Singh, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, referred to McDaniel's past statement pressing Democrats to return donations from movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, who has been accused of sexual misconduct and sexual assault. 
  
 "In the exact words of RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, 'If you stand for treating women well and you stand for the respect of women, you shouldn't take money from somebody who treated women with the absolute highest level of disrespect,'" Singh said. 
  
 The Weinstein scandal put Hollywood’s hypocrisy in broad daylight. RT if you agree the DNC should return his donations. — GOP (@GOP) October 9, 2017 
  
 Over the years, Wynn has donated to the RNC, the National Republican Senatorial Committee, the National Republican Congressional Committee and President Donald Trump's inaugural committee, among other GOP lawmakers and causes, according to Federal Election Commission filings. He has also donated to Democratic causes and candidates. 
  
 However, the GOP organizations and candidates have yet to say if they plan to return any donations. 
  
 FEC records also show donations to Democrats, including Hillary For America, Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential committee, in 2015 and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in 2000. 
  
 Doug Heye, a former RNC spokesman, tweeted Friday afternoon that Wynn "has got to go." 
  
 This strikes me as a lot worse than $2K in misappropriated funds at an LA nightclub and other 2010 RNC fiascos I’m still trying to forget that cost several people their jobs. 
  
  
  
 Steve Wynn has got to go. https://t.co/tGtDW0Huoi — Doug Heye (@DougHeye) January 26, 2018 
  
 Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer and RNC deputy finance chair, called Wynn a "great man" and did not respond directly to the allegations on Friday. 
  
 "Steve is a truly great man who has been the driving force behind the RNC finance committee," he said. ||||| CLOSE President Trump is set to deliver his first State of the Union Tuesday, but, for many of the President’s political opponents, the real State of the Union will be Monday night. Veuer's Nick Cardona (@nickcardona93) has that story. Buzz60 
  
 Casino mogul Steve Wynn smiles during a news conference in Medford, Mass., on March 15, 2016. Wynn was one of the highest paid CEOs in 2016, according to a study carried out by executive compensation data firm Equilar and the Associated Press earning $28.2 million. (Photo: Charles Krupa, AP) 
  
 WASHINGTON — Steve Wynn has resigned as the Republican National Committee finance chair following sexual assault allegations against the billionaire CEO of Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts. 
  
 "Today I accepted Steve Wynn’s resignation as Republican National Committee Finance Chair," RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel said Saturday in a statement to USA TODAY. 
  
 Wynn weighed in shortly afterward, saying "the work we are doing to make America a better place is too important to be impaired by this distraction," according to a tweet from Politico. 
  
 Wynn, who turned 76 Saturday, was reported to have engaged in sexual misconduct with company employees over decades, according to a Friday report by The Wall Street Journal. 
  
 Wynn has vigorously disputed the accusations. 
  
 Wynn has had a complicated relationship with Donald Trump: first as a casino-owning rival in Atlantic City during the 1990s, then as a Republican mega-donor whose first choice for the White House in 2016 was Florida GOP Sen. Marco Rubio, and lately as one of the president's closest confidantes. 
  
 Like Trump, Wynn has given to Democrats in the past though his contributions have gone exclusively to Republicans during the last decade, including Rubio, Ohio Sen. Rob Portman and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney. 
  
 In addition to the tens of thousands he's given to GOP candidates and causes, Wynn co-chaired the president’s inaugural committee in 2016, which raised a record $107 million. The billionaire also contributed $729,217 to the inauguration fund through Wynn Resorts Ltd, according to Bloomberg. 
  
 Last week, Wynn was the co-chair (with McDaniel) of a $100,000-per-ticket fundraiser at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla., to celebrate the one-year anniversary of the president's inauguration. 
  
 Wynn's abrupt departure threatens to complicate the party's fundraising efforts heading into an already challenging mid-term election cycle for the GOP — which is trying to hold on to the House and the Senate. 
  
 And the accounts of Wynn's alleged tawdry behavior — the latest in a series of high-profile men who have been accused of improperly using their power to pressure female employees and other women into sex — will focus more attention on similar accusations that have been made against Trump. 
  
 Further complicating matters is that Democrats are now pressuring Republicans to return the money Wynn gave them in the same fashion that the GOP demanded Democrats give back donations from disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. 
  
 The Weinstein scandal put Hollywood’s hypocrisy in broad daylight. RT if you agree the DNC should return his donations. — GOP (@GOP) October 9, 2017 
  
 “This is the Republican Party,” DNC deputy communications director Sabrina Singh said in a statement Friday before Wynn stepped down. “This is the party of Donald Trump, Roy Moore, Joe Arpaio and Trent Franks. Democrats will refuse to stand by while the Republican Party denigrates women. We will continue to march side by side with women all across this country because we believe that women must be empowered and respected.” 
  
 It's not just Democrats who are trying to tie the accusations against Wynn to similar ones leveled against Trump. 
  
 "He is a predator of the worst kind who used his position of power to sexually coerce his female employees," Nita Chaudhary, co-founder of UltraViolet, a leading women’s advocacy organization, said in a statement. "It is sadly no surprise that he keeps company with people like Donald Trump — a man who follows the same playbook of sexual abuse." 
  
 Harvey Weinstein in Beverly Hills, on Jan. 9, 2017. (Photo: Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP) 
  
 According to the Wall Street Journal report, the alleged incident was referenced, in broad terms, in a lawsuit filed by Elaine Wynn, Wynn's ex-wife, against the casino mogul and the gaming company. It was one of a number of incidents the newspaper story detailed. 
  
 "It is clear that Mr. Wynn's ex-wife has sought to use a negative public relations campaign to achieve what she has been unable to do in the courtroom: tarnish the reputation of Mr. Wynn in an attempt to pressure a revised divorce settlement from him," Wynn Resorts said in a statement issued Friday. 
  
 "It is noteworthy that although Ms. Wynn says she knew about the 2005 allegations involving Mr. Wynn in 2009, she never made them known to the board of directors, of which she was then a member, and she did not raise them until after Mr. Wynn remarried and the shareholders of Wynn Resorts voted not to elect her to the board," the statement said. 
  
 Elaine Wynn declined to comment to USA TODAY for this article. 
  
 Her spokeswoman, Devon Spurgeon, said Elaine Wynn refuted the company's claim that she was trying to relitigate the divorce settlement. Spurgeon also said that Elaine Wynn did notify a representative of the board in 2009 when she learned of the allegation. 
  
 "Beyond this incident, dozens of people the Wall Street Journal interviewed who have worked at Mr. Wynn’s casinos told of behavior that cumulatively would amount to a decades-long pattern of sexual misconduct by Mr. Wynn," the newspaper report said. "Some described him pressuring employees to perform sex acts." 
  
 Among other things, the report cited accounts from former employees who said they entered fake appointments in casino salon calendars to help female employees to avoid Wynn's requests for services in his office suite. 
  
 Others recounted incidents in which female employees hid in the bathroom or back rooms when they learned Wynn was on the way to the salon, the Journal reported. 
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2DS1EzK |||||