The highly watched Gu verdict arrives just as Beijing is set to begin a once-a-decade leadership change. Jeremy Page reports on The News Hub. Photo: AFP/GettyImages. 
  
 BEIJING—Gu Kailai, the wife of ousted Communist Party official Bo Xilai, was found guilty and given a suspended death sentence on Monday for the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood in the southwestern city of Chongqing last year, according to observers in the courtroom. 
  
 Now that a Chinese court has handed down a suspended death penalty for Gu Kailai, attention is turning toward what this means for her husband, ousted official Bo Xilai. The WSJ's Jeremy Page on the next chapter of China's murder trial of the century. 
  
 They said the Intermediate People's Court in the eastern city of Hefei gave Ms. Gu a death sentence with a two-year reprieve—a penalty that had been widely expected and is normally commuted to a life sentence in prison after two years of good behavior. 
  
 Zhang Xiaojun, a Bo family aide, was also found guilty but given a lighter sentence of nine years in prison for his role in the murder, the observers said. Neither plans to appeal, the state-run Xinhua news agency said on Monday. 
  
 Read More China Real Time: Internet Users React to Verdict 
  
 The judgment is a key step in the party leadership's efforts to conclude its worst political scandal in more than two decades and paves the way for an announcement on how it plans to deal with Mr. Bo, the former Chongqing Party chief, according to analysts and Party insiders. 
  
 But party leaders are facing mounting public skepticism over the trial after friends of Mr. Heywood and prominent public figures in China pointed out omissions, ambiguities and contradictions in the official account of how and why Mr. Heywood was killed. 
  
 The Wall Street Journal was first to report earlier this year that U.K. officials had asked the Chinese government to launch an inquiry into the death of Mr. Heywood, a business consultant with close ties to the Bo family whose body was found in a hotel room in November in Chongqing, where Mr. Bo was party chief at the time. 
  
 Ms. Gu had been widely expected to escape the death penalty because of her family's status in the party, her history of mental health problems and her claim that Mr. Heywood threatened her son, analysts and party insiders said. 
  
 A Chinese court has handed a suspended death sentence to Gu Kailai, the wife of former Communist Party Chief Bo Xilai, for the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. The WSJ's Deborah Kan speaks to China Editor Andrew Browne about what's behind the ruling. 
  
 "If she had been actually executed, the political consequences could have been quite serious, because Bo is not just an ordinary person: He has his own group and family connections," said He Weifang, a law professor at Peking University. "I think this outcome was negotiated before the trial even began. But I still think there are still some differences over how to handle Bo Xilai." 
  
 Mr. Zhang's lighter sentence was also expected because prosecutors said he was an accomplice, and Ms. Gu the main culprit, according observers during the trial. 
  
 At their trial on Aug. 9, Ms. Gu and Mr. Zhang didn't contest charges that they murdered Mr. Heywood in his hotel room by pouring cyanide into his mouth after he became drunk, vomited and sought a drink of water. 
  
 Ms. Gu told the court that she had suffered a "mental breakdown" because she believed that Mr. Heywood had threatened the safety of her son, Bo Guagua, after they became embroiled in a business dispute over a failed property deal. 
  
 Bo Guagua, the son of Ms. Gu and the elder Mr. Bo, hasn't commented publicly since the trial and didn't immediately respond to a fresh request for comment Monday. 
  
 "We respect the court's judgment," He Zhengsheng, a lawyer for the Heywood family who attended Monday's hearing, told The Wall Street Journal. 
  
 The British Embassy, which sent two diplomats to observe the trial and the announcement of the verdict and sentence, said in a statement: "We welcome the fact that the Chinese authorities have investigated the death of Neil Heywood, and tried those they identified as responsible." 
  
 The statement added: "We consistently made clear to the Chinese authorities that we wanted to see the trials in this case conform to international human rights standards and for the death penalty not to be applied." 
  
 William Hague, the British Foreign Secretary, called publicly in April for a thorough investigation free from political interference, but an Embassy spokesman said he could not comment on process of the investigation or the trial. 
  
 Public attention in China will now turn to the even more politically sensitive question of how the party deals with Mr. Bo, who until he was removed as party chief of Chongqing earlier this year was seen as a candidate for promotion in a once-a-decade leadership transition this fall. 
  
 Party leaders are understood to be keen to announce a decision on that question ahead of the leadership change but have had difficulty reaching a consensus, in part because of residual party support for Mr. Bo, according to analysts and party insiders. 
  
 Those people say the decision is also complicated by party leaders' desire to avoid drawing more public attention to some of the issues raised by the Bo scandal, notably the private wealth of many top leaders' families. 
  
 Chinese authorities announced in April that Mr. Bo had been sacked from his party posts and placed under investigation for unspecified "serious disciplinary violations," but they have yet to declare whether he too will face criminal charges. 
  
 Nor have they said how they plan to deal with Wang Lijun, the former Chongqing police chief who in February sought refuge in a U.S. consulate in China, where he told diplomats he had evidence that Ms. Gu was involved in the death of Mr. Heywood. 
  
 The next step toward concluding the scandal is widely expected to be the trial of Mr. Wang, most likely on treason charges related to what authorities have called his "unauthorized" consulate visit. Mr. Wang, who was detained by Chinese security officers and placed under investigation after leaving the consulate, stepped down in June as a member of the national Parliament—a resignation that stripped him of immunity from prosecution. 
  
 Mr. Bo, however, is still a member both of the national Parliament and of the party—official exclusion from which is usually a necessary precursor to criminal charges, according to experts on Chinese politics and law. 
  
 Those experts also noted that Mr. Bo's name hadn't been mentioned at his wife's trial or the trial in Hefei the next day of four former Chongqing police officers charged with covering up Mr. Heywood's murder—which they didn't dispute. The Intermediate People's Court in Hefei found all four guilty on Monday and sentenced them to prison terms ranging from five to 11 years, according to Xinhua. It said they don't plan to appeal. 
  
 Some observers said the omission of Mr. Bo's name from the two trials suggests he won't be accused of direct involvement either in Mr. Heywood's alleged murder, or the subsequent alleged coverup. But others said it suggests the party leadership has yet to make a decision on Mr. Bo and is simply allowing itself leeway to define his wrongdoing later on. 
  
 Most analysts, however, agree that the party leadership will make a political decision in time for a full meeting—known as a plenum—of the roughly 300-strong Central Committee, which is expected shortly before the leadership transition. 
  
 Mr. Bo is thought to be in the hands of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, a party organization that investigates members' conduct and decides whether they should be dealt with internally or also face criminal charges. It typically interrogates those in its grasp at a secret location, and forms a special group comprising police, prosecutors, state security officers and any other relevant officials to gather evidence. 
  
 It is a highly politicized process, with individual party leaders able to use personal relations or formal powers over the agencies involved to influence decisions on which evidence is selected, and how it is interpreted. 
  
 The commission itself is headed by He Guoqiang, one of nine members of the Politburo Standing Committee, China's top decision-making body. Himself a former party chief of Chongqing, like Mr. Bo, he is thought by many party insiders, political analysts and diplomats to favor harsher treatment. But the police, prosecutors, courts and intelligence services are overseen by fellow Standing Committee member Zhou Yongkang, said by some party insiders to have a more sympathetic view of Mr. Bo. 
  
 Once the investigation group has completed its work, the commission compiles the evidence and submits a report to the party leadership advising whether to pursue criminal charges. If the leadership decides to refer the case to the courts, the commission also makes recommendations on the verdict and sentence, but may withhold actual evidence and instead summarize its findings. 
  
 Enlarge Image Close Reuters Gu Kailai and Zhang Xiaojun being escorted into the courtroom for their Aug. 9 trial. 
  
 The process can be slow, judging by the two previous Politburo members to be sacked. In the 1990s, it was three years between the ouster of Beijing's mayor, Chen Xitong, and his trial. Shanghai's Chen Liangyu was brought into court 18 months after his downfall as the city's party secretary. 
  
 If Mr. Bo is dealt with internally by the party, a final decision on his fate could be announced by the autumn, but if he is turned over to the courts, many observers do not expect a trial until next year at the earliest. 
  
 "In the cases of the two Chens, each man was subsequently turned over for criminal prosecution, resulting in lengthy prison terms," wrote Alice Miller, a research fellow and expert on Chinese politics at the Hoover Institution, in a paper this month on the Bo affair. "A comparable fate likely awaits Bo Xilai." 
  
 She continued: "Bo's removal in that respect therefore does not indicate a departure from the 'rules of the game' as played in the last two decades. The reform era initiated by Deng Xiaoping has seen the emergence of a more legalistic exit mechanism for removing high party leaders." 
  
 —James T. Areddy in Shanghai contributed to this article. 
  
 Write to Jeremy Page at jeremy.page@wsj.com 
  
 A version of this article appeared August 20, 2012, on page A1 in the U.S. edition of The Wall Street Journal, with the headline: With China Trial Over, Focus Turns To Fate Of Official. ||||| FILE - In this Jan. 17, 2007 file photo, then Chinaese Commerce Minister Bo Xilai, right, and his wife Gu Kailai attend a memorial ceremony for Bo's father Bo Yibo, a late revolutionary leader considered... (Associated Press) 
  
 The wife of a fallen Chinese politician has been given a suspended death sentence after confessing to killing a British businessman in a case that has rocked the country's political leadership. A suspended sentence is usually commuted to life in prison after several years. 
  
 He Zhengsheng, a lawyer for the victim Neil Heywood, said Monday that Gu Kailai was given the suspended death sentence and a family aide was sentenced to nine years' imprisonment for killing the former Bo family associate. 
  
 But even with the verdict, questions remain over the fate of Gu's husband, Bo Xilai, who was dismissed in March as party secretary of the major city of Chongqing. The murder trial comes at a sensitive time in China with a handover soon of power to younger leaders. ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The moment Gu Kailai and her aide, Zhang Xiaojun, were sentenced 
  
 The wife of disgraced Chinese politician Bo Xilai has been given a suspended death sentence for the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. 
  
 Gu Kailai did not contest charges at her one-day trial that she poisoned Mr Heywood in November 2011. 
  
 Suspended death sentences are usually commuted to life imprisonment in China. 
  
 Mr Bo, the former party chief in Chongqing, was once seen as a contender for a national leadership position in a top-level reshuffle later this year. 
  
 But he has not been seen in public since the investigation into Gu was announced. 
  
 Gu's aide, Zhang Xiaojun, was jailed for nine years for his part in the murder. 
  
 'Special respect' 
  
 The verdict in China's most high-profile trial for years came early on Monday, inside a court ringed by security personnel. 
  
 Analysis The outcome of the case is a neat one for the Communist Party. It pins the blame for Neil Heywood's death on Gu Kailai, but she escapes the full death penalty. Her suspended sentence is sign of leniency. Murderers in China often face the firing squad. Gu Kailai admitted premeditated murder. She confessed she lured Neil Heywood to Chongqing, procured cyanide, got him drunk, then poured the poison into his mouth. But she claimed she'd had a mental breakdown. The court said it accepted she was not in full control of her actions. Many will believe it is her political connections that have won her this reprieve. And the trial has conveniently avoided the most sensitive questions. Did her husband, the once powerful Bo Xilai, have any link to the crime or the cover-up by police under his control in Chongqing? How did the family become so rich? Were the business deals that led to Neil Heywood's murder corrupt? They're uncomfortable questions for the Communist Party to face. 
  
 Chinese state media reported that during the 9 August trial - which was not open to all - Gu admitted she poisoned Neil Heywood in a hotel room in Chongqing, helped by her aide. 
  
 She said she had suffered a mental breakdown and that Mr Heywood had threatened her son amid a row over a property deal, state media said. 
  
 Images shown on Chinese state television showed Gu responding to the verdict. "This verdict is just. It shows special respect for the law, reality and life," she said. 
  
 Speaking after the sentence was announced, court spokesman Tang Yigan said the court believed Mr Heywood had threatened Gu's son but not acted on the threats. It also found Gu had been suffering from "psychological impairment", he said. 
  
 A spokesman for British Prime Minister David Cameron said the UK had made it clear to Beijing that the case must be properly investigated, but that the outcome was "a matter for the Chinese authorities". 
  
 A lawyer for the Heywood family said they respected the court's decision. 
  
 Image caption Mr Heywood was found dead in a hotel room in November 2011 
  
 The sentence of death with a two-year suspension means that if Gu commits no crimes while in prison, her sentence will be commuted after two years to life imprisonment and could be further reduced for good behaviour, Chinese legal expert Professor Donald Clarke writes in his blog. 
  
 Chinese internet users reacted immediately to the verdict on Twitter-like microblogging platforms. 
  
 With key names connected to the case still apparently censored, most used the phrase "suspended death sentence". Within two hours, there were at least two million posts. 
  
 Many users expressed dissatisfaction, saying most murderers in China would be executed. Some attributed it to Gu's background, others suggested she could eventually be freed under medical parole. 
  
 Leadership change 
  
 At a separate trial on 10 August, four senior police officers from Chongqing admitted charges of covering up evidence linking Gu to the murder. A court official said they had been given terms of between five and 11 years in prison, AFP reported. 
  
 TIMELINE: BO XILAI SCANDAL 6 Feb: Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun flees to the US consulate in Chengdu 
  
 Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun flees to the US consulate in Chengdu 15 Mar: Bo Xilai is removed from his post in Chongqing 
  
 Bo Xilai is removed from his post in Chongqing 20 Mar: Rumours suggest Mr Bo could be linked to the death of British businessman Neil Heywood 
  
 Rumours suggest Mr Bo could be linked to the death of British businessman Neil Heywood 10 Apr: Bo Xilai is suspended from party posts and his wife, Gu Kailai, is investigated over Mr Heywood's death 
  
 Bo Xilai is suspended from party posts and his wife, Gu Kailai, is investigated over Mr Heywood's death 26 July: Gu Kailai and Bo family employee Zhang Xiaojun are charged with killing Mr Heywood 
  
 Gu Kailai and Bo family employee Zhang Xiaojun are charged with killing Mr Heywood 9 Aug: Gu Kailai goes on trial for murder 
  
 Gu Kailai goes on trial for murder 20 Aug: Gu Kailai given suspended death sentence Netizens criticise Gu's sentence Bo Xilai scandal: Timeline 
  
 Mr Heywood's death was initially recorded as a heart attack. 
  
 The case came to light when Bo Xilai's deputy, police chief Wang Lijun, fled to the US consulate in February, reportedly with information connected to the case. 
  
 He has not been seen in public since then and state media say he is being investigated. 
  
 It is not yet known how the Communist Party plans to deal with Mr Bo, once seen as a powerful and ambitious high-flier. 
  
 Many analysts expected him to be promoted to the nine-strong politburo Standing Committee later in the year. 
  
 Seven committee members are due to retire, with a new generation of leaders to take their place at a party congress expected later this year. 
  
 But Mr Bo has been stripped of his official posts and is being investigated for "discipline violations", state media reports say. 
  
 A lengthy Xinhua news agency write-up of Gu's trial, however, made no mention of Mr Bo. |||||