Naked Cowboy sues Naked Cowgirl, underwear-clad Times Square performer says she stole his idea, name 
  
 Handschuh/News The Naked Cowboy, whose real name is Robert John Burck, at a press conference today. 
  
 He's trading his bikini briefs for legal ones. 
  
 The Naked Cowboy filed a lawsuit Wednesday against the Naked Cowgirl, claiming she stole his idea and is sullying his name. 
  
 The tighty-whitey wearing Times Square stalwart, whose real name is Robert Burck, claims his female competitor muscled in on his turf in 2008 and is "devaluing a real American brand and Icon." 
  
 "No one else should be profiting off the Naked Cowboy brand," said Burck's lawyer, Joe Jackson. "This woman is confusing tourists and destroying the brand." 
  
 Burck filed the trademark infringement suit against the cowgirl, whose real name is Sandra Brodsky, in Manhattan federal court. 
  
 Burck said his idea - which he trademarked in 2000 - is about clean, wholesome fun. He claims the cowgirl is tarnishing the name with her antics. 
  
 "She has been observed using visual profanity (flipping the bird at the camera) when photographing with people in Times Square," the lawsuit states. "This is inconsistent with the manner in which the Naked Cowboy conducts business." 
  
 He said Brodsky, an ex-stripper who hosted a public access comedy show called the "Sandy Kane Blew Show," has repeatedly ignored his requests that she pay him a franchising fee since showing up in Times Square two years ago. 
  
 "I'm a pretty easy going guy, this was really a last resort," Burck said. 
  
 Kane did not return a call for comment. ||||| It's not exactly the gunfight at the O.K. Corral. 
  
 (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
  
 ADVERTISEMENT (Click Prev or Next to continue viewing images.) 
  
 FILE - In this July 22, 2009 file photo, Robert Burck, also known as The Naked Cowboy, speaks to reporters during a news conference in New York's Times Square. One of Times Square's best-known entertainers... (Associated Press) 
  
 New York City's famous Naked Cowboy is headed to court to protect his trademark from the Naked Cowgirl. 
  
 Robert Burck says Sandy Kane is damaging the brand he built through more than a decade of strumming his guitar wearing only briefs and a cowboy hat. He's earned as much as $1,000 a day working Times Square from about 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
  
 Kane wears a bikini, cowboy hat and guitar in her role as the Naked Cowgirl. 
  
 The federal suit filed Wednesday asks the court to keep Kane from doing anything that would violate Burck's trademark. 
  
 Kane is a former stripper who's now a fixture of the city comedy scene. 
  
 Her attorney says he hasn't seen the lawsuit, but Kane has the right to do what she's doing. |||||