Argyle's Jake Jervis headed in Gary Sawyer's cross for a 12th-minute lead.
Third-placed Pompey levelled when Gary Roberts latched on to Luke McCormack's fumble from Kyle Bennett's cross.
Luton's draw with Leyton Orient left Plymouth 11 points clear of fourth place with four games remaining, but a win for Derek Adams' side against Newport will secure promotion.
In the so called Dockyard derby, ex-Portsmouth forward Jervis nodded in his 11th goal of the season in the first half and winger Matty Kennedy should have doubled the lead when he fired into the side netting after a mazy run.
The Pilgrims lost in the League Two play-offs last season but are still on course to secure promotion, along with leaders Doncaster who are already up, with four games to spare.
Pompey had more possession and chances throughout the game until their equaliser and sit four points beyond Plymouth, eight points clear of the chasing play-off teams.
Match ends, Portsmouth 1, Plymouth Argyle 1.
Second Half ends, Portsmouth 1, Plymouth Argyle 1.
Attempt missed. Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick.
Kal Naismith (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by David Fox (Plymouth Argyle).
Oscar Threlkeld (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Oscar Threlkeld (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt blocked. Conor Chaplin (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Conor Chaplin (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by David Fox (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt missed. Danny Rose (Portsmouth) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
Attempt missed. Conor Chaplin (Portsmouth) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt saved. Kal Naismith (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Yann Songo'o.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Craig Tanner replaces Matthew Kennedy.
Substitution, Portsmouth. Jamal Lowe replaces Carl Baker.
Michael Doyle (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Connor Smith (Plymouth Argyle).
Ryan Taylor (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Michael Doyle (Portsmouth).
Gareth Evans (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Matthew Kennedy (Plymouth Argyle).
Christian Burgess (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Ryan Taylor (Plymouth Argyle).
Attempt saved. Carl Baker (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Michael Doyle (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Connor Smith (Plymouth Argyle).
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Gary Sawyer.
Substitution, Plymouth Argyle. Connor Smith replaces Jake Jervis.
Substitution, Portsmouth. Conor Chaplin replaces Gary Roberts.
Attempt missed. Carl Baker (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Oscar Threlkeld.
Antoni Sarcevic (Plymouth Argyle) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Antoni Sarcevic (Plymouth Argyle).
Foul by Michael Doyle (Portsmouth).
Graham Carey (Plymouth Argyle) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Goal!  Portsmouth 1, Plymouth Argyle 1. Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) left footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the bottom right corner.
Foul by Kal Naismith (Portsmouth).