Saturday Night Live veteran Bobby Moynihan is departing the long-running NBC sketch-comedy series, where he is one of the most senior and popular cast members. The SNL season finale this Saturday will be his last episode on the show. 
  
 Moynihan’s exit from SNL comes as his CBS comedy pilot, Me, Myself & I, was picked up to series and landed on the network’s fall schedule. Moynihan was at the CBS’ upfront presentation today, introducing the show and his co-stars onstage where he noted that he was in a hurry to go to his “other show.” That would be SNL, which today had a run-through for the season finale with host Dwayne Johnson and musical guest Katy Perry, who just signed on as a judge for ABC’s American Idol reboot. 
  
 Moynihan is in his ninth season on SNL. Upon completing his standard seven-year contract on the show, I hear he had granted the show a two-year extension. I hear the current season had been planned as his final one on the show, which explains his availability for broadcast pilots. Moynihan received multiple offers, settling on Me, Myself & I, from writer Dan Kopelman, Warner Bros. TV and Aaron Kaplan’s Kapital Entertainment. He will relocate from New York, where SNL is based, to Los Angeles, where the CBS comedy will film. In addition to Me, Myself & I, Moynihan also voices the title character in the newly picked-up Syfy series Happy! 
  
 Among Moynihan’s most popular SNL impersonations have been Chris Christie, Newt Gingrich, Snooki, Guy Fieri and Ted Cruz, along with such original characters as Drunk Uncle and secondhand reporter Anthony Crispino. You atch a Drunk Uncle sketch here: ||||| Published on May 17, 2017 
  
 The life of a genius inventor is examined in his childhood, today and in the future. Bobby Moynihan, John Laroquette and Jack Dylan Grazer tell the story of Alex Riley. This Fall on CBS. ||||| Bobby Moynihan will depart “Saturday Night Live” following the sketch-comedy franchise’s season finale this weekend. 
  
 Moynihan’s exit from the show had been expected since CBS last week picked up comedy series “Me, Myself, & I,” in which he is set to star, for the 2017-18 season. 
  
 This season was Moynihan’s ninth on “SNL” — placing him among the longest-running cast members in the show’s history. In the current cast, his tenure was exceeded only by that of colleague Kenan Thompson. 
  
 Moynihan, like so many “SNL” veterans, developed his own stable of recurring characters, including Drunk Uncle and secondhand reporter Anthony Crispino. Among the real-life people he impersonated on the show were Chris Christie, Guy Fieri, and Snooki. 
  
 On Wednesday, Moynihan appeared at CBS’ upfront presentation with his fellow “Me, Myself & I” cast members. The single-cam comedy examining one man’s life over a 50-year span — with Moynihan playing the protagonist at age 40. Kapital Entertainment is producing in association with Warner Bros. Television. Writer Dan Kopelman is executive producing with Aaron Kaplan, Dana Honor, and pilot director Randall Einhorn. 
  
 Saturday’s episode of “Saturday Night Live” will be the last of the show’s 42nd season. “Baywatch” star Dwayne Johnson is set to host with musical guest and new “American Idol” judge Katy Perry. ||||| Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. |||||  
  
 Life is filled with defining moments—what matters most is how we deal with them. Me, MYSELF & I, a refreshing new comedy coming to CBS this fall, stars Bobby Moynihan and spans three distinct periods of Alex Riley's life. 
  
  
  
 READ: Here's Your First Look At The 2017-2018 CBS Primetime Lineup 
  
  
  
 As a 14-year-old boy in 1991, Alex and his mom move from Chicago to Los Angeles when she remarries. 
  
  
  
 In the present day, 40-year-old Alex's life has hit both a personal and professional standstill. And in 2042 at 65, Alex has a realization that to be truly happy, he has to step away from his successful company and get back to his passion: inventing. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Alex (Bobby Moynihan) and Darryl (Jaleel White) find their zen in Me, MYSELF & I. 
  
  
  
 Through these pivotal periods, where the past informs the future, we see Alex handle the moments with determination, emotion, and lots of humor. 
  
  
  
 In addition to Bobby, Me, MYSELF & I stars John Larroquette, Sharon Lawrence, Kelen Coleman, Mandell Maughan, Brian Unger, Jaleel White, Jack Dylan Grazer, Skylar Gray, Christopher Paul Richards, and Reylynn Caster. 
  
  
  
 Executive Producers include Dan Kopelman, Randall Einhorn (pilot only), Aaron Kaplan, and Dana Honor. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Plenty more fun and surprises are to come on Me, MYSELF & I. 
  
  
  
 Stay tuned for more updates on Me, MYSELF & I before it premieres this fall on Mondays at 9:30/8:30c on CBS and CBS All Access. 
  
  
  
 Then, starting Monday, Oct. 30, catch it at its new time of 9/8c on CBS and CBS All Access. |||||