Destiny's Child Michelle Williams Checks into Mental Health Facility 
  
 Destiny's Child Michelle Williams Checks into Mental Health Facility for Depression 
  
 Exclusive Details 
  
 Michelle Williams of Destiny's Child has checked herself into a mental health facility to seek help for her struggle with depression ... TMZ has learned. 
  
 Sources tell us Williams is getting treated in a facility just outside of Los Angeles and has been there for the past several days. Michelle has been open with her struggles in the past ... revealing her battle with depression in an interview last year. 
  
 In a statement Tuesday, Michelle says, "For years I have dedicated myself to increasing awareness of mental health and empowering people to recognize when it's time to seek help, support and guidance from those that love and care for your wellbeing." 
  
 She continues, "Today I proudly, happily and healthily stand here as someone who will continue to always lead by example as I tirelessly advocate for the betterment of those in need." 
  
 Williams famously reunited with Beyonce and Kelly Rowland at Coachella in April ... the first time the group had performed together in several years. ||||| (CNN) Former Destiny's Child singer Michelle Williams has revealed she's now happy and healthy after recently seeking medical help for mental health issues. 
  
 "For years I have dedicated myself to increasing awareness of mental health and empowering people to recognize when it's time to seek help, support and guidance from those that love and care for your wellbeing," Williams wrote in a statement posted to Instagram. "I recently listened to the same advice I have given to thousands around the world and sought help from a great team of healthcare professionals." 
  
 A post shared by Michelle Williams (@michellewilliams) on Jul 17, 2018 at 12:01pm PDT 
  
 Williams did not disclose the nature of the condition or conditions for which she sought treatment, but she has opened up in the past about her battles with depression. 
  
 Last year, Williams told the hosts of "The Talk" that she didn't realize she'd been suffering from depression until she was in her 30s, despite experiencing symptoms since she was a teenager. 
  
 "So many people are walking around acting like they've got it all together and they're suffering," she told the hosts. 
  
 Read More |||||