Canada’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission has released a historic document – a five-year quest to record the truth of what happened at Indian residential schools – that essentially provides Ottawa with a road map to mend the fractured relationship between the country and its native peoples. 
  
 Murray Sinclair, the head of the commission, says mere words are no longer enough and that the Harper government must take steps now to break from past injustice and start the journey toward national reconciliation. 
  
 “The survivors need to know that, having been heard and understood, that we will act to ensure the repair of damages is done,” Justice Sinclair said Tuesday in a speech to hundreds of survivors and supporters who jammed into a meeting room in a downtown Ottawa hotel to witness the release of the report, which described past native policies as “cultural genocide.” 
  
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who made an extraordinary apology seven years ago for widespread abuses at the church-run schools, will speak to former students of the institutions Wednesday at an invitation-only gathering at Rideau Hall during the close of events to mark the report’s unveiling. 
  
 Justice Sinclair met with Mr. Harper in private late Tuesday afternoon to discuss the issue of reconciliation and to push the government to do much more. “We believe the current government has yet to make good on its claim that it wishes to join with aboriginal people in Canada in a relationship based on the knowledge of our shared history, a respect for each other, and a desire to move forward together as promised … in the Prime Minister’s apology,” Justice Sinclair said. 
  
 Tuesday’s 328-page report, which examined the damages inflicted on generations of indigenous people, gives the government a framework toward reconciliation with 94 recommendations that include calling on Ottawa to fully implement a UN declaration on the rights of indigenous people, revamp educational curriculums across the country to reflect the deplorable history of residential schools, and create a national day of reconciliation. 
  
 In a statement after meeting with Mr. Harper, Justice Sinclair said there was a frank exchange of views and that the Prime Minister listened to some of the commissioners’ concerns and inquired about some of their recommendations. 
  
 But “I remain concerned with the government’s resistance to the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,” he said. “We have offered to meet again with the Prime Minister once he has read the report and we look forward to continuing the conversation.” 
  
 Justice Sinclair told reporters that he believes those who are in a position of leadership in this country should be willing to step up and ensure that the recommendations in the report – a final version of which will be released later in the year – are implemented as soon as practical. 
  
 Chief among them are a call for the Crown to build on the Royal Proclamation of 1763 by issuing a royal proclamation of reconciliation and a demand that Canada fully implement the UN declaration. 
  
 “A royal proclamation of reconciliation would reaffirm and restore a commitment to the nation-to-nation relationship, which we believe must be identified and exist between aboriginal peoples and the Crown,” said Justice Sinclair. 
  
 And Canada, he said, was “sadly” the only country to raise objections last fall when the rest of the world agreed to implement the UN declaration that provides a framework for affirming, respecting and protecting the equality of aboriginal people and their rights. 
  
 When asked in the daily Question Period of the House of Commons about when the government would put the declaration into effect, Mr. Harper pointed out that Canada is one of the very few countries in the world where aboriginal treaty rights are fully recognized in the Constitution. 
  
 “That is one of the reasons why the government accepted the UN declaration as an aspirational document,” he told MPs. 
  
 Justice Sinclair said the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) agrees that the declaration is an aspirational document “and we are calling on them to aspire to the agreement and are asking them how they are going to do that.” 
  
 The release of the report was greeted with excitement and tears by many of the former students who travelled to Ottawa to witness the occasion. 
  
 Phil Fontaine, the former national chief of the Assembly of First Nations who attended a residential school, was instrumental in obtaining the settlement between former students, the government and the churches that mandated the establishment of the TRC. 
  
 “The story of how we came to be here is a long and painful one, but this day will help us put that pain behind us,” Mr. Fontaine told the crowd. “It is a historic moment for Canada. The significance of this day is not just about what has been but equally what is to come.” 
  
 By interviewing thousands of former students, and collecting millions of documents, Justice Sinclair and his fellow commissioners chronicled the story of an education system that saw young indigenous children taken from their parents and locked in a foreign world of fear, loneliness and lack of affection at the schools where they were forbidden from speaking their languages. 
  
 The report says the abuse was meted out by teachers, supervisors and also by older students. Hunger was a constant reality, children were raped and beaten, and thousands perished from disease, suicide, or exposure to the elements as they tried to escape. 
  
 An analysis of the available data that was done by the TRC suggests that between 5 per cent and 7 per cent of the children who attended the schools died there, said Justice Sinclair. That would put the number of deaths at the institutions at about 7,500, he said. 
  
 “Rather than denying or diminishing the harm done, we must agree that this damage requires serious, immediate and ongoing repair. We must endeavour instead to become a society that champions human rights, truth and tolerance, not by avoiding a dark history but rather by confronting it.” 
  
 Report Typo/Error ||||| These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved.Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors.The goal is to fix all broken links on the web . Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. ||||| Canada needs to move from "apology to action" if reconciliation with Aboriginal Peoples is to succeed, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission says in its landmark report, which includes 94 recommendations for change in policies, programs and the "way we talk to, and about, each other." 
  
 The summary of the final report, released today after years of hearings and testimony from thousands of residential school survivors and many others, makes many bold and potentially costly recommendations — not just to the different levels of government, but to schools, societies, churches and aboriginal governments. 
  
 The goal is to repair the relationship between aboriginal people and the rest of Canada. 
  
 The recommendations include the creation of a National Centre and Council for Truth and Reconciliation and the drafting of new and revised legislation for education, child welfare and aboriginal languages. 
  
 CBC News previously reported some of the recommendations — including the implementation of the UN Declaration on Indigenous Peoples — during an interview with Justice Murray Sinclair, the head of the commission, on The National on Monday night. 
  
 The commission was launched with a mandate to explore the history and legacy of the residential school system, and the process has faced hurdles — including the replacement of commission members and battles with the government over documents. 
  
 Commission chair Justice Murray Sinclair says there is a sense of urgency to the report, which he hopes will serve as a reference document for 'generations to come.' (Darryl Dyck/Canadian Press) 
  
 Tuesday's full release comes after the commission travelled the country, listening to six years of testimony from nearly 7,000 witnesses. The more than 360-page document provides some stories from survivors, including tales of children taken from parents, siblings separated and abuse and neglect at residential schools. 
  
 From the outset, the long-awaited summary report blasts more than 100 years of Canada's aboriginal policy, saying in the introduction that the "establishment and operation of residential schools were a central element of this policy, which can best be described as 'cultural genocide.'" 
  
 Speaking to CBC's chief correspondent Peter Mansbridge before the findings were released, Sinclair said the document is not just addressed to government: "Many of our elements, many of our recommendations and many of the calls to action are actually aimed at Canadian society." 
  
 Key recommendations 
  
 Below are summaries of some of the policy recommendations made. Read the full summary report on the TRC website. 
  
 HEALTH: An acknowledgement that the current state of aboriginal health is a direct result of previous government policies and the implementation of health-care rights for aboriginal people. 
  
 EDUCATION: The creation and funding for new aboriginal education legislation, which protects languages and cultures and closes the education gap for aboriginal people. 
  
 JUSTICE: A commitment to eliminate the overrepresentation of aboriginal people in custody and in trouble with the law, along with the collection and publication of data on criminal victimization of aboriginal people. 
  
 PUBLIC INQUIRY: The creation of a public inquiry into missing and murdered aboriginal women and girls. 
  
 MONITORING: The creation of a national council for reconciliation, which would monitor and report on reconciliation progress, as well as the introduction of an annual State of Aboriginal Peoples report delivered by the prime minister. 
  
 LANGUAGE: The government is asked to implement an Aboriginal Languages Act and appoint a language commissioner in order to preserve and promote it. 
  
 FUNDING: The report calls for $10 million over seven years from the federal government for the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation 
  
 COMMEMORATION: The creation of a statutory holiday to honour survivors, their families and communities – and to ensure "public commemoration of the history and legacy of residential schools remains a vital component of the reconciliation process." 
  
 MEMORIALS: The report asks for funding for memorials, community events and museums, including a museum reconciliation commemoration program, to be launched in time for Canada's 150th anniversary in 2017. 
  
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper issued an apology to former residential school students in 2008, saying the "policy of assimilation was wrong, has caused great harm, and has no place in our country." 
  
 "I'm happy. I'm helping survivors. I'm happy. My happiness is my revenge." - survivor testimony from TRC video gets laughter, loud cheers. —@connie_walker 
  
 More apologies are needed, the summary report says, calling on the Pope and clergy leaders to apologize to survivors for the abuse suffered in Catholic-run residential schools. 
  
 But apologies alone are not enough, the authors say, noting that survivors and others who have spoken have told the commission that for "reconciliation to thrive in the coming years, Canada must move from apology to action." 
  
 Reconciliation, the report says, is not a "one-time event," but is instead a "multi-generational journey that involves all Canadians" in schools and beyond. 
  
 Closing the gap 
  
 The recommendations also address the disparity between aboriginal and non-aboriginal people and push the government and other organizations to close this gap. 
  
 The summary report particularly focuses on the gap in education, with the commission noting the disparity in both aboriginal education funding and in the performance and achievement of aboriginal students. Their recommendations task the federal government with developing a joint strategy to eliminate this discrepancy and present annual reports on progress. 
  
 Drummers pass Parliament Hill on Sunday during a Walk for Reconciliation, part of the closing events of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The report draws on testimony from thousands of residential school survivors. (Justin Tang/Canadian Press) 
  
 "What we have said to government leaders is that education is what got us into this mess, the use of education, at least, in terms of residential schools," Sinclair told CBC News Monday night ahead of the release. "But education is the key to reconciliation, because we need to look at the way we are educating children." 
  
 "That's why we say this is not an aboriginal problem, it's a Canadian problem." 
  
 Sinclair said he wants to see change to teaching in public and aboriginal schools to make sure people understand the "full and proper history of each indigenous group and the territories in which they live." 
  
 More funding from the federal government is also needed to support aboriginal students who wish to go to post-secondary schooling, the authors say. 
  
 The recommendations included in Tuesday's report are non-binding — the government doesn't have to act, but the commission is pushing for the implementation of its recommendations and urging Canadians to do the same. 
  
 "Reconciliation is going to take hard work. People of all walks of life and at all levels of society will need to be willingly engaged," the authors say in the closing notes, where the authors thank survivors who "in tears and with anger, shared their pain." 
  
 "They came forward to share their stories, not just to ease their burden, but also to try to make things better for their children and their grandchildren." |||||