Jack Jones pleaded guilty to 14 offences against young boys at Thorold Home, Southampton, in the 80s and 90s.
Southampton Crown Court heard how Jones would assault teenage boys at the home in their bedrooms, a shed, swimming baths and his car.
His ex-boyfriend Stuart Murdoch was also jailed for abusing children but this was not connected to the home.
Jones, 57, of Goose Lane, York, went by the name of Eamonn Tallon at the time of the offences, and was convicted of assaulting three boys aged between 11 and 13 while working at Thorold Home.
He was also convicted of offences committed alongside Murdoch.
Ex-boyfriend Murdoch, 54, of Tankerville Road, Southampton, was jailed for five years after being found guilty by jury of five counts of assaulting a boy aged under 14 with Jones.
The court heard that before Jones worked at the home he and Murdoch would invite a young boy to their house in Barnfield Close in the Weston area of Southampton.
They would regularly assault him together and Murdoch was convicted for three counts of indecent assault and two counts of serious sexual offences.
The court heard how publicity generated by a previous court case which saw Jones jailed for four years prompted more victims to come forward.
Jones was previously found guilty of sexual offences committed while working at the home in 2003.
One victim, abused by Jones aged 12, said in a statement that his innocence had been "stolen" and his "whole world was crashing around him".
Jones was convicted of six counts of indecent assault, two counts of serious sexual assault and multiple counts of sexual assault on children under 14.
Following the sentence, Det Insp James Park, of Hampshire police, said coming forward had been "a very difficult and brave thing" for the victims.
"Many years ago these victims, who had a difficult start in life, were taken into care where they should have been safe from abuse.
"In the case of Jones, they were then abused by the very person charged with keeping them safe," he added.