Craig Weir, from Carnoustie, welcomed the Terminator star on to the stage at a business event in Edinburgh last week, while his brother Paul drummed.
The following night Craig joined The Libertines onstage at their show at Glasgow's SSE Hydro.
His run concluded at a charity event featuring the cast of Still Game.
Craig, 22, began his four-day run on Wednesday night at Edinburgh's EICC where "The Governator" was putting in a rare UK appearance at business event entitled "An Experience with Arnold Schwarzenegger".
Craig and his brother Paul, 18, met the movie star and had their photo taken with him following the event.
The piper said: "The opportunity to welcome Arnold to Scotland for the first time was incredible and very surreal. He was very kind to us and was excited to hear the bagpipes played live in Scotland."
The following night Craig renewed his acquaintance with Pete Doherty's band The Libertines, who he has played with before.
Craig joined the band to play Flower of Scotland as they walked on stage.
He said: "It was amazing to play once more with my music heroes, The Libertines.
"The crowd response to it was amazing.
"The band were very welcoming once again and it was a great evening."
Craig's Celtic rock band Gleadhraich played at a charity concert on Saturday in Stirling in aid of The Eilidh Brown Memorial Fund, which is building a respite holiday home for young people and their families fighting cancer.
The bill included The Voice winner Stevie McCrorie, The Fratellis and the cast of BBC Scotland comedy Still Game.
Craig's latest brush with the stars follows six dates playing with the Bay City Rollers before and after Christmas.
Last year he also played We Will Rock You with Queen at the SSE Hydro.
He began playing the pipes aged eight after his uncle Jack gave him a set of pipes and encouraged him to practice.
Away from the stage, Craig is studying for a postgraduate diploma in education at Aberdeen University.
He said: "I've met with and played for a lot of big names in the last few years, but this week has been extra special because of the short space of time these gigs have occurred in.
"It's provided a stunning start to 2016 for me and my band."