Winston Churchill famously asserted that he had nothing to offer but “blood, toil, tears and sweat”. Now, bizarrely, a few drops of the first of these are coming up for sale at auction next month. 
  
 A phial containing traces of Churchill’s blood, drawn from the former prime minister as he recovered in hospital from a fractured hip, is being offered for sale to the highest bidder. 
  
 Churchill was treated in the Middlesex hospital in London in 1962 at the age of 87 after breaking his hip while in Monte Carlo, Monaco. It was feared that he would not survive but he soldiered on until the age of 90. 
  
  
  
 The blood taken at the Middlesex was about to be disposed of when a student nurse called Patricia Fitzgibbon asked if she could keep the tube, which was clearly labelled with Churchill’s name. She was given permission and kept it for the rest of her life. Now it is being put up for auction following her death. 
  
 Facebook Twitter Pinterest Timothy Medhurst of Duke’s auction house with the phial of Winston Churchill’s blood. Photograph: Deep South Media 
  
 Timothy Medhurst, of Duke’s auction house in Dorset, said experts had estimated the lot at £300-£600. He said: “It is impossible to put an accurate estimate on this unique piece of history. 
  
  
  
 “It is probably the first time that such a personal piece of Churchill’s history has been offered on the open market. This year marks the 50-year anniversary of Churchill’s death. The blood is a poignant reminder of an injury which marked the beginning of the end for Churchill and, as such, we expect there to be great interest in it. It could sell for thousands.” 
  
 The blood will be sold together with a signed declaration by Fitzgibbon detailing the circumstances in which she acquired the phial. 
  
 In 2010 she recalled that, despite the severity of his injury, Churchill remained steadfast throughout his stay. She said: “I remember that he would never settle at night until after he had read the first edition of all the daily newspapers, which he had specially delivered. He habitually smoked cigars in bed … [and] regularly mixed the first and second courses of his meal into one bowl before eating it.” 
  
 The auction will take place at Duke’s of Dorchester in Dorset on 12 March. ||||| A few drops of blood taken from Sir Winston Churchill as he recovered with a broken hip are going under the hammer. 
  
 The sample was collected in 1962 when the ‘blood, toil, tears and sweat’ orator was at The Middlesex Hospital being treated for a fractured hip. 
  
 Student nurse Patricia Fitzgibbon asked if she could keep the small glass tube that was labelled ‘Sir Winston S Churchill WWB9’, and her request was granted. 
  
 Following her death it is now being put up for sale at Duke’s of Dorchester in Dorset on March 12. 
  
 In 1962, Churchill, aged 87, was on holiday in Monte Carlo when he reportedly fell out of his bed, fracturing his hip. 
  
 He was flown back to London in an RAF VC10 jet at the request of the Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. 
  
 He spent several weeks recovering in the Woolavington Wing for private patients at the hospita, when the phial of blood was taken. 
  
 His recovery was slow as he contracted bronchitis and pneumonia which in turn led to thrombosis. 
  
 It was widely anticipated that he would not survive the ordeal at his advanced age. 
  
 The blood was about to be thrown away when nurse Fitzgibbon was given permission to keep the 7cm-long tube. 
  
 In 2010 she remembered how, despite the severity of his injury, Churchill remained steadfast throughout his stay. 
  
 She said: “While the ward sister generally kept nurses out of his room, I did have occasional duties to carry out. 
  
 “I remember that he would never settle at night until after he had read the first edition of all the daily newspapers which he had specially delivered. 
  
 "He habitually smoked cigars in bed … [and] regularly mixed the first and second courses of his meal into one bowl before eating it!” 
  
 The blood – taken three years before Churchill’s death – is going under the hammer with an estimate of £300-600. 
  
 Timothy Medhurst from Duke’s said: “It is impossible to put an accurate estimate on this unique piece of history. 
  
 “There are just a couple of drops in the phial that is clearly labelled. 
  
 “At the time this blood was taken Churchill had already experienced a catalogue of injuries. 
  
 “So to have another devastating injury occur at such an old age was a threat to his stalwart ‘British Bulldog’ image. 
  
 “Though Churchill largely relied on his walking stick by the time this broken hip occurred, the operation to fix the fracture would have a caused a shortening in his leg and photographs following 1962 always show Churchill leaning on his iconic walking stick. 
  
 “This injury was also at a poignant moment in Churchill’s personal life – his beloved poodle Rufus II died whilst he was in hospital recovering. 
  
 “The blood will be sold together with a signed declaration by Patricia Fitzgibbon detailing the circumstances in which she acquired the phial. 
  
 “It is probably the first time that such a personal piece of Churchill’s history has been offered on the open market. 
  
 “This year marks the 50th anniversary of Churchill’s death. The blood is a poignant reminder of an injury which marked the beginning of the end for Churchill and as such, we expect there to be great interest in it. It could sell for thousands.” 
  
 On May 10, 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister and when he met his Cabinet on May 13 he told them: “I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat.” 
  
 He repeated that phrase later in the day when he asked the House of Commons for a vote of confidence in his new all-party government that would stand up to the Nazi aggressors. 
  
 Also in the sale are a set of Churchill’s ‘The Second World War’ books, which he has inscribed as a gift for Mabel Johnson, who worked with Lady Spencer Churchill during the war. 
  
 These have an estimate of £4,000-8,000. 
  
 Stories you might have missed 
  
 Pink trainers clue in 'race hate' fire attack 
  
 Paper maker goes into administration 
  
 Burglar trapped by DNA 
  
 Ex-teacher guilty of indecently assaulting boy ||||| Duke's to offer magnificent Georgian horse racing trophy 
  
 Duke’s are delighted to offer this magnificent George III silver-gilt Richmond Race Cup made in London in 1802 by Paul Storr and retailed by Makepeace 
  
 In 1757 Robert Adam was commissioned by Thomas Dundas to design a new trophy for the Richmond ‘Gold Cup’ horse race. In the 18th century, the course in North Yorkshire became one of the biggest and most celebrated attractions in the racing calendar with a prize of 100 guineas or more. This large ‘double gilt’ cup was – by tradition – paid for by general subscription and the worthy gentleman of the town with the silversmith being ordered to ‘make the best cup he can for 100 guineas’. The cup would generally weigh one hundred ounces or more. Subsequent cups were based on Adam’s original design and in the hands of the most eminent silversmiths, they evolved over the decades. This example is engraved on the rim ‘Richmond 1802’ and also engraved with the names of the stewards, Charles Brandling and Timothy Hutton. In addition, it is engraved ‘MAKEPEACE, FECIT’ on the rim of the lid. This fine and historic trophy comes with its original transit case and retains the retailers label for ‘Robt Makepeace, Goldsmith and Jeweller, Serle Street, Lincolns Inn Fields’. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Welcome to Duke's 
  
 Welcome to the Dorchester Fine Art Salerooms, which are centrally located in the county town, close to the main Dorchester South railway station. 
  
 Trains run hourly to London Waterloo (approximately 2 hours 30 minutes) and there are airports at Bournemouth and Exeter. The Saleroom is surrounded by an ample car park. If you require further information please contact the saleroom 
  
 Photography By Jonathan Gooding |||||