England midfielder Livermore had been suspended since May following a positive cocaine test.
He played 69 minutes and was given a rousing reception by the home fans.
David Meyler's close-range finish before the break was enough for Hull to progress, with the visitors missing a host of first-half chances.
Livermore was spared a lengthy ban by the Football Association because of "unique" personal circumstances.
Swansea made 10 changes from Saturday's draw with Everton and had plenty of chances in the opening 45 minutes, but they were made to rue their wastefulness.
Matt Grimes headed over, Gylfi Sigurdsson slid the ball past an empty net and Wayne Routledge missed two chances.
The winner came when Shaun Maloney's header was parried into the path of Meyler, who poked home underneath the crossbar.
Hull were more comfortable after the break although Kyle Bartley hit the post late on for the frustrated visitors.
Hull manager Steve Bruce:
Media playback is not supported on this device
"It was a big night for Jake for obvious reasons and I'm sure he appreciated the support he got from our fans.
"He's had the support of the club from the moment this happened and now he's played his first game he can get back on with his career.
"He's been through a tough time, a really tough time, and it's important now he gets his career back on track."
Swansea boss Garry Monk:
"If you played that game 100 times you'd win 99.
"They scored with pretty much their only chance and we had so many chances it could have been a cricket score in the first half.
"We just didn't take any of them and got hit with a classic sucker punch. We showed a lack of composure which was disappointing."
Match ends, Hull City 1, Swansea City 0.
Second Half ends, Hull City 1, Swansea City 0.
Curtis Davies (Hull City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Bafétimbi Gomis (Swansea City).
Attempt missed. Jordi Amat (Swansea City) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the right.
Substitution, Hull City. Tom Huddlestone replaces Isaac Hayden.
Attempt missed. Gylfi Sigurdsson (Swansea City) left footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Corner,  Swansea City. Conceded by Moses Odubajo.
Corner,  Swansea City. Conceded by Andrew Robertson.
Attempt blocked. Jonjo Shelvey (Swansea City) header from the centre of the box is blocked.
Corner,  Swansea City. Conceded by Isaac Hayden.
Attempt missed. Bafétimbi Gomis (Swansea City) header from the left side of the six yard box is close, but misses to the left.
Substitution, Swansea City. Kyle Naughton replaces Franck Tabanou because of an injury.
Substitution, Hull City. Sam Clucas replaces Jake Livermore.
Foul by David Meyler (Hull City).
Jonjo Shelvey (Swansea City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Substitution, Swansea City. Bafétimbi Gomis replaces Eder.
Foul by David Meyler (Hull City).
Gylfi Sigurdsson (Swansea City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Substitution, Hull City. Moses Odubajo replaces Ryan Taylor.
Substitution, Swansea City. Jonjo Shelvey replaces Matt Grimes.
Attempt missed. Leon Britton (Swansea City) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the right.
Corner,  Hull City. Conceded by Franck Tabanou.
David Meyler (Hull City) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Angel Rangel (Swansea City).
Attempt saved. Shaun Maloney (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner.
Shaun Maloney (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Kyle Bartley (Swansea City).
Second Half begins Hull City 1, Swansea City 0.
First Half ends, Hull City 1, Swansea City 0.
Corner,  Swansea City. Conceded by Curtis Davies.
Corner,  Swansea City. Conceded by Curtis Davies.
Attempt missed. Curtis Davies (Hull City) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left following a set piece situation.
Jordi Amat (Swansea City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Chuba Akpom (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jordi Amat (Swansea City).
Goal!  Hull City 1, Swansea City 0. David Meyler (Hull City) right footed shot from very close range to the high centre of the goal.
Attempt saved. Shaun Maloney (Hull City) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Andrew Robertson (Hull City) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Matt Grimes (Swansea City) wins a free kick on the left wing.