Mr Gargan, 48, was found guilty of eight charges of misconduct but has been allowed to return to work.
The Avon and Somerset branch of the federation said it "cannot envisage" how the public or police can have "confidence in his leadership".
Mr Gargan said he understood people had questions and said he would address these.
In a statement issued through the Chief Police Officers Staff Association, he said he was "very much looking forward to returning to work" and "beginning the process of rebuilding confidence in the force".
The comments about his return to work were made in an open letter to Avon and Somerset Police and Crime Commissioner Sue Mountstevens.
Mr Gargan was suspended following allegations of data protection breaches and inappropriate behaviour with women.
A panel found him guilty of misconduct - but cleared him of gross misconduct. His suspension was lifted and a phased return to work prepared.
Mr Gargan said his actions had "fallen below the standards expected of a chief constable".
In the letter seen by the BBC, the Police Federation said the chief constable is "the person that sets the standard of professional behaviour and ethical conduct" and the role "must be beyond reproach" in the eyes of the public and police officers.
It said its officers had been asked on a daily basis by "the communities they serve" how the chief constable "can return to work in these circumstances".
The letter ends with the federation calling on the commissioner to "show strong leadership in dealing with this issue".
Some former members of the force have also criticised Mr Gargan's return.
One group of retired officers said the "debacle" had caused "more pain and damage to morale than is imaginable".
Lawrie Lewis, a retired Chief Superintendent, said the force's reputation had been "severely tarnished".
Sue Mountstevens said: "The procedure to be followed in relation to the sanction hearing is strictly regulated.
"As with all judicial processes when proceedings are not complete it is not possible to discuss or comment upon them until they have been finalised."