— While the angst over whether this country’s political system is broken seems likely to go on for the foreseeable future, it gave way to some degree Wednesday to more immediate concerns about how badly the Washington Monument had been cracked. 
  
 The monument was damaged Tuesday by a magnitude-5.8 earthquake that rattled nerves across much of the East Coast, particularly the parts that directly experienced the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Although the quake’s epicenter was less than 100 miles away, the Washington metropolitan area suffered mostly minor damage to homes, schools, office buildings and other businesses, and most of the region’s infrastructure was unscathed. 
  
 The National Cathedral appeared to be the hardest hit, with fallen capstones, broken statues and cracks in several flying buttresses. 
  
 However, fractures in the walls of the Washington Monument, a towering icon of American strength and influence, had the potential to become the only vestige of the earthquake to capture more than fleeting national attention. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 While schools were closed, most of Washington returned to normal on Wednesday. But the monument, which at more than 555 feet is the world’s tallest stone structure, was closed to visitors so that engineers could hover in helicopters and examine its interior walls to determine the extent of the cracks in its peak. 
  
 Photo 
  
 “We’re not sure how long it will take,” said Bill Line, a spokesman for the National Parks Service, when asked when the monument might reopen. “The engineers are going up there today. They may need to go tomorrow. And they may need to go again the day after that. But until we figure out how badly the structure has been damaged, no one else will be going up other than them.” ||||| The National Park Service says engineers have discovered several additional cracks in the top portion of the Washington Monument. 
  
 The cracks were found Wednesday during a daylong inspection of the interior of the monument. A 4-inch (10-centimeter) crack was discovered Tuesday during an inspection of the exterior by helicopter, shortly after a 5.8-magnitude earthquake shook the capital. 
  
 The monument is closed to visitors indefinitely. 
  
 Park service spokeswoman Carol Johnson could not say how many additional cracks were found but says engineers found three or four "significant" ones. 
  
 The park service is bringing in engineers from two firms with extensive experience investigating earthquake damage to conduct a more detailed inspection on Thursday. 
  
 Johnson says it's likely that the additional cracks mean the monument will take longer to repair. |||||