Yikes. Damon Wayans went on a long rant in defense of Bill Cosby — who has been accused of drugging, raping, or sexually assaulting nearly 50 women — during an interview on Power 105’s The Breakfast Club radio show on Friday, Sept. 4. 
  
 “Tell the truth, if I was him, I would divorce my wife, wink wink, give her all my money, and then I would go do a deposition,” Wayans began. “I’d light one of them three-hour cigars. I’d have me some wine, and maybe a Quaalude, and I would just go off, because I don’t believe he was raping.” 
  
 PHOTOS: Biggest celebrity scandals of 2015 
  
 The 55-year-old comedian continued on his diatribe: “I believe he was in relationships with all of them and then he’s like, ‘You know what? [I’m] 78. It don’t work like that no more. I can’t get it up for any of y’all. Bye, bitches,’ and then they’re like, ‘Oh, really? Rape!’” 
  
 Just last month, three more women came forward to accuse Cosby, 78, of sexually abusing them over the years. Attorney Gloria Allred, who represents all three women, as well as 21 other Cosby accusers, said in an L.A. press conference that it took an extreme amount of courage for these women to speak up. 
  
 “Many of them were in fear because they had never spoken out publicly about anything and certainly in some cases had never even told family, co-workers, and friends about what they allege Mr. Cosby did to them,” Allred said. 
  
 On Friday, however, Wayans painted a different picture. 
  
 PHOTOS: Stars at court 
  
 “Oh, really? Rape. Forty years — listen, how big is his penis that it gives you amnesia for 40 years?” the actor said. When radio host Angela Yee pointed out that many of the women had come forward years ago, Damon dismissed the facts. 
  
 “But if you listen to them talk, they go, ‘Well the first time.’ The first time?!” Wayans said. “Bitch, how many times did it happen? Just listen to what they’re saying.” 
  
 PHOTOS: Celebrity mugshots 
  
 “And some of them, really, is unrapeable. I look at them and go, ‘No, he don’t want that. Get outta here!’” he continued. “Look, I understand fame. I’ve lived it. Women will throw themselves at you. They just want be in your presence. There’s some that innocently will come up there, but not 40-something women. They’re not that naive.” 
  
 In a previous deposition, Cosby admitted to paying off several women and blocking magazine articles from being published so his wife, Camille, wouldn’t find out about his actions. 
  
 PHOTOS: Celebrity sex confessions 
  
 And in 2005 testimony obtained by the Associated Press, the former TV star admitted to getting Quaaludes and other sedatives with the intention of giving them to women he wanted to have sex with. 
  
 Cosby's attorney, Patrick O'Connor, argued in a court filing this past July that the actor only used the Quaaludes for consensual and recreational sex. 
  
 Toward the end of the interview, Wayans admitted that he felt bad for the women who may have actually been assaulted. “And for them, my heart goes out to them," he said. "For anybody who was raped by Bill Cosby, I’m sorry, and I hope you get justice." 
  
 Sign up now for the Us Weekly newsletter to get breaking celebrity news, hot pics and more delivered straight to your inbox! 
  
 Want stories like these delivered straight to your phone? Download the Us Weekly iPhone app now! ||||| Damon Wayans Taking Heat Some of Cosby's Accusers 'Un-Rapable" 
  
 Damon Wayans Taking Heat -- Some of Cosby's Accusers 'Un-Rapable' (VIDEO) 
  
 Damon Wayans is drawing fire for comments he made about Bill Cosby's accusers, some of which sounded like he was making a joke but there also seemed to be an underpinning of seriousness. 
  
 Damon was talking to Charlamagne Tha God on The Breakfast Club Friday, when he unloaded on the accusers, musing that some of them waited 40 years to lodge complaints and saying, "How big is his penis that it gives you amnesia for 40 years." 
  
 But the biggest criticism emanates from his comment that some of the women were "un-rapable." 
  
 So we gotta ask ... ||||| Damon Wayans has made some controversial remarks about the Bill Cosby sexual assault allegations, calling it a “money hoax” by “unrapeable” women. 
  
 Speaking in an interview with New York station Power 105’s “The Breakfast Club,” Wayans dismissed allegations, saying, “I just don’t believe it. I think it’s a money hustle.” 
  
 “If I was him, I would divorce my wife, wink-wink, give her all my money, and then I would go do a deposition,” Wayans said, prompted by the question of what advice he would give to Cosby. “I would light one of them three-hour cigars. I’d have some wine and maybe a Quaalude, and I would just go off, because I don’t believe that he was raping.” 
  
 Wayans further called out the women for timing, adding, “How big is his penis that it gives you amnesia for 40 years?” 
  
 After backlash started to come in as Wayans’ comments circulated, took to Twitter to defend himself: “Stop twisting my words,” he wrote on Saturday. “Watch the entire interview before u condemn me!” 
  
 Stop twisting my words. Watch the entire interview before u condemn me! http://t.co/yQqPMB23kL — Damon Wayans (@DamonkWayans) September 6, 2015 
  
 More than 40 women have now come out with sexual assault accusations against Cosby, with many of the alleged rapes having occurred in the ’70s and ’80s. 
  
 “Some of them really [are] un-rape-able,” he said of the accusers. “I just look at them and go, ‘You don’t want that. Get out of here.'” 
  
 Wayans also pointed to white men in Hollywood, namely “7th Heaven’s” Stephen Collins and Woody Allen, noting that Collins’ show is still airing and Allen is still making films despite sexual assaults allegations brought against them. 
  
 Wayans didn’t leave Hannibal Buress out, either, saying of the comedian who helped resurface the claims against Cosby, “I wonder how he feels, being the dude that destroyed Bill Cosby?” 
  
 Wayans also talked about being fired from “Saturday Night Live,” co-creating “In Living Color” and Tracy Morgan’s car accident, claiming that Morgan will receive $90 million in his settlement with Walmart. Watch the full interview below. ||||| Damon Wayans is the latest celebrity to jump to the defense of Bill Cosby. 
  
 The actor appeared on Power 105.1's "The Breakfast Club" radio show on Friday, where he said that he doesn't think Cosby is a rapist. Wayans went on to explain his theory about the 51 women who've come forward with their stories of being drugged or sexually assaulted by the comedian. 
  
 First, he provided a little bit of advice. 
  
 "Tell the truth. If I was him, I would divorce my wife -- wink, wink -- give her all my money, and then I would go to a deposition. I'd light one of them three-hour cigars, I'd have me some wine and maybe a Quaalude. And I would just go off," he said. 
  
 "I don’t believe that he was raping, I think he was in relationships with all of them," Wayans continued. "And then he was like, ‘You know what, it’s '78. It don’t work no more. I can’t get it up for any of y’all. Bye, bitches. And now they’re like, ‘Oh really? Rape!’" 
  
 Wayans also questioned why the accusers waited so long to come forward, but co-host Angela Yee was quick to point out that some women came out with their claims decades ago. 
  
 "But if you listen to them talk, they go, ‘Well, the first time…’ The first time? Bitch, how many times did it happen? Just listen to what they’re saying," Wayans responded. "And some of them, really, is un-rapeable. I look at them and go, ‘No, he don’t want that. Get outta here!’” 
  
 Attempting to make his words sound less offensive, Wayans then added that his "heart goes out" to the women who were actually assaulted, insinuating that not all the women who've come forward are telling the truth. 
  
 "For anybody who was raped by Bill Cosby, I'm sorry and I hope you get justice," he said, only to then call out "all the other bitches" who just didn't take responsibility for their actions. 
  
 You can watch the whole interview below: |||||