Golrokh Ebrahimi Iraee was jailed for six years in 2016 over an unpublished story in which the main character burns the Koran after watching a film about the stoning of a woman in Iran.
Her husband, Arash Sadeghi, had been on hunger strike for 71 days. His lawyer said he would be taken to a hospital.
The release came a day after a rare unauthorised protest in Tehran.
Hundreds of Iranians demonstrated outside Evin prison, where the couple were being held.
Ms Ebrahimi Iraee was detained on 24 October after officials raided her home to make her serve her sentence, human rights group Amnesty International said. She had previously been convicted of "insulting Islamic sanctities" and "spreading propaganda against the system".
Her story described the emotional reaction of a young woman who watches the film The Stoning of Soraya M, which tells the true story of a young woman stoned to death.
Iranian authorities found the piece, written in a private diary, on 6 September 2014, when the couple were initially arrested by men believed to be members of the Revolutionary Guard, Amnesty said. She was initially released after 21 days, while her husband was sent to Evin prison.
The human rights group added that she was later tried and found guilty in two brief sessions by a Revolutionary Court in Tehran with no legal representation.
Mr Sadeghi is serving a 19-year prison term on charges including "spreading propaganda against the system", "gathering and colluding against national security" and "insulting the founder of the Islamic Republic" for his work as a human rights activist, according to Amnesty.
His hunger strike began after his wife's arrest last year. Mr Sadeghi claims her sentence was handed to her to further punish him. His lawyer, Amir Raisian, said he had ended his protest, AP news agency reported.
As concerns over Mr Sadeghi's health grew last week, an international Twitter campaign to support him - under the hashtag #SaveArash - became a trending topic, even though Twitter is banned in Iran.