British woman dies after Everest trek 
  
 October is peak trekking season in Nepal 
  
 A British woman has died after being taken ill while on a trekking trip in Nepal's Everest region, police say. 
  
 The 49-year-old was reportedly found dead in her hotel room after complaining of breathing difficulties. 
  
 Local police told the AFP news agency she had just returned from a trek to Everest base camp, at 5,364m (17,700ft) above sea level, with her daughter. 
  
 The Foreign Office said it was notified of the death and was providing consular assistance to the family. 
  
 Police spokesman Purushottam Silwal said the pair were on their way to Nepal's capital Kathmandu when the woman experienced trouble breathing and decided to stop for a night at a hotel in Khumjung. 
  
 He suggested the death could be down to altitude sickness, which leads to headaches, fatigue and dizziness and occurs when people ascend heights too quickly. 
  
 The woman's body has been airlifted to Kathmandu for a post-mortem examination, he added. 
  
 October is peak trekking season in Nepal, which is home to eight of the world's 14 highest mountains. ||||| AFP / Robert Kay 
  
 A British woman died after returning from a trip to Everest base camp with her daughter 
  
 A British woman on a trekking trip in Nepal's Everest region was found dead in her hotel room after complaining of respiratory problems, local police said Monday. 
  
 The 49-year-old and her daughter were returning from a trip to Everest base camp, located at 5,364 metres (17,700 feet), when she experienced trouble breathing and stopped for a night at a hotel in Khumjung, en route to the capital Kathmandu. 
  
 "She possibly died of altitude sickness," local police official, Purushottam Silwal, told AFP. 
  
 "Her body was airlifted to Kathmandu for a post-mortem," Silwal said. 
  
 Altitude sickness strikes when people ascend heights too quickly, as the decreased atmosphere pressure causes headaches, fatigue and dizziness. 
  
 The incident follows the death of a Japanese climber last month, who slipped and fell during an ascent of Mount Manaslu, the world's eighth-highest peak. 
  
 October is peak trekking season in the Himalayan nation, which is home to eight of the world's 14 highest mountains. 
  
 Hundreds of climbers abandoned plans to ascend Mount Everest in April this year after 16 Nepalese guides were killed in an avalanche, marking the deadliest day on the 8,848-metre (29,029-foot) peak. |||||