Once the negotiator arrives at the meeting point, he waits until his satellite phone beeps with a text message. In the message is a pair of GPS coordinates. 
  
 He drives five to six more hours until he reaches the new address in the sand and waits for the next text, containing another set of coordinates. The process is repeated a minimum of three times before the jihadists finally show themselves. 
  
 The money is counted on a blanket on which the fighters sit cross-legged, their guns at their sides, the official said. The millions are then divided into stashes, wrapped in plastic and buried in holes hundreds of miles apart, a detail he was able to glean after repeated meetings with the terrorist cell. They mark the location on their GPS, keeping track of it just as they track their buried cars and fuel drums. 
  
 The money is written off by European governments as an aid payment, or else delivered through intermediaries, like the French nuclear giant Areva, a state-controlled company that a senior negotiator said paid €12.5 million in 2011 and €30 million in 2013 to free five French citizens. (A spokesman for Areva denied in an email that a ransom had been paid.) 
  
 In Yemen, the intermediaries are Oman and Qatar, which pay the ransoms on behalf of European governments, including more than $20 million for two groups of hostages released in the past year, according to European and Yemeni officials. 
  
 Almost a year into her captivity in 2012, Mariasandra Mariani thought she could not take it anymore. Her captors were holding her in a landscape of black granite in northern Mali, which amplified the suffocating heat. When the wind blew, it felt as if someone were holding a blow dryer inches from her skin. She spent all day next to a bucket of water, sponging herself to try to keep cool. 
  
 She told her guard that her modest family, which grows olives in the hills above Florence, did not have the money, and that her government refused to pay ransoms. Her captor reassured her. 
  
 “Your governments always say they don’t pay,” he told Ms. Mariani. “When you go back, I want you to tell your people that your government does pay. They always pay.” ||||| Fighters from the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, which would later become an official branch of Al Qaeda, perpetrated the 2003 kidnapping. Their leaders came from Algeria’s northern coastal region and were not used to driving in the sands of the Sahara, said the hostages. The jihadists grabbed tourists from Germany who were traveling on motorcycles, but did not know how to operate the bikes. They forced the tourists to drive with a gunman riding on the back of the seat. 
  
 The leader of the operation, Abderrazak el Para, whom the French news media called “the Bin Laden of the Sahara,” appears almost giddy the first time he mounts a motorcycle. His European captive — apparently not yet aware that he has been kidnapped — shows him how to stand up properly in the seat. 
  
 “This video shows, No. 1, the lack of sophistication of the jihadists,” said Mr. Atallah, who reviewed the video. “It also crucially shows that they were ad-libbing. They had never done this before.” 
  
 Ingo Bleckmann, a 60-year-old inventor from Salzburg, Austria, initially thought he was being robbed when the militants confronted him. He said he quickly realized he was in the hands of ideological extremists. |||||