4:02 AM IRAN DEAL REACHED: Photo crews called to Palais des Nacions for signing ceremony (Haaretz) 
  
 3:13 AM No final nuclear agreement reached between Iran and world powers, Iranian Deputy FM says (Reuters) 
  
 3:02 AM Geneva nuclear talks end early on Sunday with no deal announced (Haaretz) 
  
 1:37 AM Missile falls in Egypt's Sinai; no word of causalities, the Egypt Independent reports (Haaretz) 
  
 12:55 AM Powerful storm system blasts U.S. west; eight killed (AP) 
  
 12:42 AM Iran won't accept deal that doesn't recognize its right to enrich uranium, deputy FM says (Reuters) 
  
 9:20 PM Several Western U.S. states drenched by powerful storm, at least 4 dead (AP) 
  
 8:06 PM Turkish PM on Egypt: 'I will never respect those who come to power through military coups' (Reuters) 
  
 7:07 PM Detained Syrian refugees in Egypt on hunger strike (AP) 
  
 7:03 PM Kerry to fly to London Sunday to meet U.K., Libyan officials (Reuters) 
  
 6:35 PM Iran deputy FM: Nuclear talks could go into fifth day (DPA) 
  
 5:03 PM Syrian activists: Government airstrikes on rebel-held areas in north kill at least 44 (AP) 
  
 4:16 PM Syrian opposition to meet diplomats in Geneva (AP) 
  
 2:42 PM Activists: Airstrikes in northern Syria kill 29 (AP) ||||| The White House denied that a final agreement had been reached. “It’s not true that the United States and Iran have agreed to one-on-one talks or any meeting after the American elections,” Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said Saturday evening. He added, however, that the administration was open to such talks, and has “said from the outset that we would be prepared to meet bilaterally.” 
  
 Reports of the agreement have circulated among a small group of diplomats involved with Iran. 
  
 There is still a chance the initiative could fall through, even if Mr. Obama is re-elected. Iran has a history of using the promise of diplomacy to ease international pressure on it. In this case, American officials said they were uncertain whether Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , had signed off on the effort. The American understandings have been reached with senior Iranian officials who report to him, an administration official said. 
  
 Even if the two sides sit down, American officials worry that Iran could prolong the negotiations to try to forestall military action and enable it to complete critical elements of its nuclear program, particularly at underground sites. Some American officials would like to limit the talks to Iran’s nuclear program, one official said, while Iran has indicated that it wants to broaden the agenda to include Syria , Bahrain and other issues that have bedeviled relations between Iran and the United States since the American hostage crisis in 1979. 
  
 “We’ve always seen the nuclear issue as independent,” the administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. “We’re not going to allow them to draw a linkage.” 
  
 The question of how best to deal with Iran has political ramifications for Mr. Romney as well. While he has accused Mr. Obama of weakness, he has given few specifics about what he would do differently. 
  
 Moreover, the prospect of one-on-one negotiations could put Mr. Romney in an awkward spot, since he has opposed allowing Iran to enrich uranium to any level — a concession that experts say will probably figure in any deal on the nuclear program. 
  
 Beyond that, how Mr. Romney responds could signal how he would act if he becomes commander in chief. The danger of opposing such a diplomatic initiative is that it could make him look as if he is willing to risk another American war in the Middle East without exhausting alternatives. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “It would be unconscionable to go to war if we haven’t had such discussions,” said R. Nicholas Burns, who led negotiations with Iran as under secretary of state in the George W. Bush administration . 
  
 Iran’s nuclear program “is the most difficult national security issue facing the United States,” Mr. Burns said, adding: “While we should preserve the use of force as a last resort, negotiating first with Iran makes sense. What are we going to do instead? Drive straight into a brick wall called war in 2013, and not try to talk to them?” 
  
 Photo 
  
 The administration, officials said, has begun an internal review at the State Department, the White House and the Pentagon to determine what the United States’ negotiating stance should be, and what it would put in any offer. One option under consideration is “more for more” — more restrictions on Iran’s enrichment activities in return for more easing of sanctions. 
  
 Israeli officials initially expressed an awareness of, and openness to, a diplomatic initiative. But when asked for a response on Saturday, Israel’s ambassador to the United States, Michael B. Oren, said the administration had not informed Israel, and that the Israeli government feared Iran would use new talks to “advance their nuclear weapons program.” 
  
 “We do not think Iran should be rewarded with direct talks,” Mr. Oren said, “rather that sanctions and all other possible pressures on Iran must be increased.” 
  
 Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters. 
  
 Direct talks would also have implications for an existing series of negotiations involving a coalition of major powers, including the United States. These countries have imposed sanctions to pressure Iran over its nuclear program, which Tehran insists is for peaceful purposes but which Israel and many in the West believe is aimed at producing a weapon. 
  
 Dennis B. Ross , who oversaw Iran policy for the White House until early 2012, says one reason direct talks would make sense after the election is that the current major-power negotiations are bogged down in incremental efforts, which may not achieve a solution in time to prevent a military strike. 
  
 Mr. Ross said the United States could make Iran an “endgame proposal,” under which Tehran would be allowed to maintain a civil nuclear power industry. Such a deal would resolve, in one stroke, issues like Iran’s enrichment of uranium and the monitoring of its nuclear facilities. 
  
 Within the administration, there is debate over just how much uranium the United States would allow Iran to enrich inside the country. Among those involved in the deliberations, an official said, are Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton , two of her deputies — William J. Burns and Wendy Sherman — and key White House officials, including the national security adviser, Tom Donilon, and two of his lieutenants, Denis R. McDonough and Gary Samore. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Iran’s capacity to enrich uranium bears on another key difference between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney: whether to tolerate Iran’s enrichment program short of producing a nuclear weapon, as long as inspectors can keep a close eye on it, versus prohibiting Iran from enriching uranium at all. Obama administration officials say they could imagine some circumstances under which low-level enrichment might be permitted; Mr. Romney has said that would be too risky. 
  
 But Mr. Romney’s position has shifted back and forth. In September, he told ABC News that his “red line” on Iran was the same as Mr. Obama’s — that Iran may not have a nuclear weapon. But his campaign later edited its Web site to include the line, “Mitt Romney believes that it is unacceptable for Iran to possess nuclear weapons capability.” 
  
 For years, Iran has rejected one-on-one talks with the United States, reflecting what experts say are internal power struggles. A key tug of war is between President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Ali Larijani , Iran’s former nuclear negotiator and now the chairman of the Parliament . 
  
 Iran, which views its nuclear program as a vital national interest, has also shied away from direct negotiations because the ruling mullahs did not want to appear as if they were sitting down with a country they have long demonized as the Great Satan. 
  
 But economic pressure may be forcing their hand. In June, when the major powers met in Moscow , American officials say that Iran was desperate to stave off a crippling European oil embargo. After that failed, these officials now say, Iranian officials delivered a message that Tehran would be willing to hold direct talks. 
  
 In New York in September, Mr. Ahmadinejad hinted at the reasoning. “Experience has shown that important and key decisions are not made in the U.S. leading up to the national elections,” he said. 
  
 A senior American official said that the prospect of direct talks is why there has not been another meeting of the major-powers group on Iran. 
  
 In the meantime, pain from the sanctions has deepened. Iran’s currency, the rial, plummeted 40 percent in early October. |||||