Stenny's Colin McMenamin and Rovers' Paul Archibald dragged shots wide before  Love forced Colin McCabe to make the first save of the evening.
McMenamin fired another effort over the bar before Ross Meechan put Stenhousemuir ahead with a right-footed effort.
However, Love earned the hosts a draw when he fired home.
The point moves Stenhousemuir above Stranraer into sixth place, but Rovers remain three points ahead in fourth.
Match ends, Albion Rovers 1, Stenhousemuir 1.
Second Half ends, Albion Rovers 1, Stenhousemuir 1.
Alan Reid (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Alan Cook (Stenhousemuir).
Substitution, Stenhousemuir. Lewis Small replaces Colin McMenamin.
Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Alan Cook (Stenhousemuir) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Kyle Turnbull (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Alan Cook (Stenhousemuir).
Foul by Alan Reid (Albion Rovers).
Alan Cook (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Stenhousemuir. Alan Cook replaces Jason Scotland.
Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jon Robertson (Stenhousemuir).
Goal!  Albion Rovers 1, Stenhousemuir 1. Ally Love (Albion Rovers) left footed shot from the left side of the box to the bottom right corner.
Substitution, Albion Rovers. Ricardo Talu replaces Gary Fisher.
Michael Dunlop (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir).
Corner,  Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Ross Dunlop.
Substitution, Albion Rovers. Callum McRobbie replaces Paul Archibald.
Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir).
Ross Dunlop (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir).
Corner,  Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Ally Love.
Attempt saved. Kieran Millar (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Foul by Ross Davidson (Albion Rovers).
Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Albion Rovers. Spas Georgiev replaces Mark Ferry.
Goal!  Albion Rovers 0, Stenhousemuir 1. Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner.
Corner,  Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Michael Dunlop.
Corner,  Stenhousemuir. Conceded by Michael Dunlop.
Attempt missed. Colin McMenamin (Stenhousemuir) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Ally Love (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jon Robertson (Stenhousemuir).
Paul Archibald (Albion Rovers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ross Meechan (Stenhousemuir).
Attempt missed. Ciaran Summers (Stenhousemuir) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
Second Half begins Albion Rovers 0, Stenhousemuir 0.