Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 JERUSALEM — Food costs at the Israeli prime minister’s residence more than doubled after Benjamin Netanyahu took office in 2009, reaching nearly $120,000 in 2012, a third of it in takeout meals. The state paid about $2,000 a month to clean the Netanyahus’ private home in the seaside town of Caesarea, though the family spent most of its time in Jerusalem. 
  
 A report published Tuesday by Israel’s state comptroller said these and other expenses — including $68,000 over two years in makeup, hairstyling and “presentation” for Mr. Netanyahu and his wife, Sara — “strayed from the cornerstone principles of financial management and the principles of proportionality, reasonableness, saving and efficiency.” 
  
 Noting that Mrs. Netanyahu had reimbursed state coffers $1,035 after she was found to have pocketed the deposit money from recycled beverage bottles, the comptroller, Joseph Haim Shapira, said he had handed his investigative material over to the attorney general because it raised “suspicion of a criminal act.” 
  
 “This is public money, and the law for a penny is the law for 100,” Mr. Shapira said in the introduction to the 36-page report. “Public trust in government institutions is the foundation stone of every democratic regime.” 
  
 The much-anticipated report came a month before Israel’s elections on March 17, and Mr. Netanyahu’s challengers seized on it to buttress their assertion that he is out of touch with Israelis struggling to buy apartments and pay grocery bills. The prime minister’s Likud Party called the surrounding media storm a slanderous campaign to topple him “through a focus on irrelevant minutiae” that “distract from the real issues at hand.” 
  
 A statement by the Likud said, “There is absolutely no indication of any assault on the public’s integrity, and certainly no indication of any criminal transgression,” blaming an “embittered” former employee now suing for damages for the high expenses. Spending fell after that employee left, the statement noted, adding that many of the comptroller’s recommendations had already been adopted and that Mr. Netanyahu had “issued a directive to implement the remaining recommendations in the best and most effective manner possible.” 
  
 The report’s publication came after weeks of critical news stories and commentaries about the first couple’s spending habits and treatment of employees, a recurrent theme of Mr. Netanyahu’s public life. Mrs. Netanyahu, a psychologist, has long been criticized as a mercurial boss who holds interminable grudges. 
  
 The Netanyahus have survived previous spending scandals — in 2013 alone, there was the $127,000 installation of a rest chamber in the airplane that took the couple to Margaret Thatcher’s funeral, and the $2,700 annual budget for ice cream. (Pistachio for the prime minister; his wife prefers French vanilla.) The bottle-deposit affair, and the surreptitious transfer of new garden furniture from the official Jerusalem residence to Caesarea, threatened to take things up a notch. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 “If there is formally a suspicion of criminal activity, and Netanyahu himself is involved, that’s crossing the line — that’s going to change everything,” said Avraham Diskin, a political scientist at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya. “All these reports came before from the media, not from an official. Immediately afterward, we couldn’t really track any decline in the popularity of the Likud or Netanyahu himself, and, in fact, it maybe worked for his benefit.” 
  
 Anticipating that the comptroller’s report would depict a life of luxury, Mr. Netanyahu posted a video on Facebook in which his wife toured the residence with a celebrity interior decorator, showing it more shabby than chic. The 15-minute video, highlighting frayed rugs, decayed doorjambs, cracked light fixtures, stained curtains and broken kitchen cabinets — viewed half a million times over two days — prompted a new cascade of criticism, including claims that it constituted both a severe security breach and an illegal campaign donation by the designer. 
  
 Ben Caspit, a columnist who frequently criticizes the prime minister, called it a visit to “the royal cuckoo’s nest,” in which the couple showed “to what gutter level” they are “capable of lowering themselves and the country.” 
  
 The vitriol rose after the release of the comptroller’s report. Zehava Gal-On of the leftist Meretz faction spoke of Mr. Netanyahu’s “hedonism” and “corrupt behavioral norms of a banana republic.” Others invoked Marie Antoinette. Shelly Yacimovich of the Labor Party asked: “What on earth were they eating there? Cornflakes with dolphin’s milk? Dinosaur-egg omelets? Rhinoceros steaks?” 
  
 The centrist Yesh Atid party said the report revealed a prime minister “who is totally disconnected and for whom the real problems of the people of Israel are the last thing on his mind.” 
  
 Besides what it called “exaggerated” spending, the comptroller’s report said the Netanyahus had bypassed regulations to hire a private electrician connected to the Likud to do repairs in Caesarea on weekends and even on the Jewish holy day of Yom Kippur, which could also lead to criminal charges. It also said public employees “paid out of their own pocket for items purchased” for the Netanyahus and were never reimbursed. 
  
 Mitchell Barak, a Jerusalem political consultant who worked for Mr. Netanyahu in the 1990s but who now often criticizes him, said the prime minister had “successfully made himself look almost like a victim” over allegations that pale compared with those made against a predecessor, Ehud Olmert, who is facing a prison sentence after being convicted of taking bribes. 
  
 “The average person who lives in Tel Aviv, who leans to the left, is flabbergasted and offended by it, but they were never going to vote for him,” Mr. Barak said. “For his voter base, which is going to be right of center, more religious, poorer population, they will concentrate on the fact that someone is trying to bring him down rather than what exactly is the content of what seems to be petty criminal activity.” ||||| In a scathing report with potential political and criminal repercussions, Israel's state comptroller sharply criticized Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday for excessive spending of public funds in his official and private residences. 
  
 The highly anticipated report, which came just four weeks before Israeli elections, faulted Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, for using public funds to spend lavishly on a variety of personal goods and services, including cleaning, clothing, water and grooming, between 2009 and 2012. The spending dropped after that. 
  
 Likud party election campaign in Jerusalem Abir Sultan / European Pressphoto Agency An Israeli worker hangs posters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu under the slogan 'It's us or them,' in Jerusalem on Feb. 8. An Israeli worker hangs posters of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu under the slogan 'It's us or them,' in Jerusalem on Feb. 8. (Abir Sultan / European Pressphoto Agency) 
  
 Netanyahu defended his behavior, but political opponents seized on the report. Labor Party leader Isaac Herzog said he found the findings infuriating. 
  
 “But it is not because of how you conduct yourself in your homes that the public wants to replace you, but because you have destroyed our home,” Herzog wrote on Facebook. “We will replace you because on your shift, Hamas grows stronger … young couples cannot buy a house … because you eat a $5000 breakfast when every third child in Israel goes to bed hungry.” 
  
 The Netanyahus live and work in the official prime minister’s residence in Jerusalem and keep a private home in Caesarea, one of the country’s priciest spots. According to the report by Comptroller Joseph Shapira, spending on both often far exceeded necessity, formal budgets and good taste. In addition, the report pointed to improprieties in management of finances, human resources and external contractors. 
  
 When Netanyahu took office in 2009, expenses at both residences totaled roughly a half-million dollars a year. By 2011, that had roughly doubled before dropping to about $600,000 in 2013. Food and hosting expenses alone started out at about $55,000 and more than doubled to about $125,000 in 2011. After a modest cut in expenses the following year, expenses for 2013 dropped to near the 2009 level. 
  
 One would expect an elected public official to demonstrate extra sensitivity ... and serve as an exemplary model of saving public funds. - Israeli State Comptroller Joseph Shapira 
  
 Cleaning both residences came with a particularly high price tag: an monthly average of about $20,000 between 2009 and 2013, including more than $2,000 a month for the Caesarea house, which was usually empty. Shapira found this spending “significantly exaggerated.” 
  
 About $20,000 a year was spent to order meal deliveries, despite employing an in-house cook. These and other expenses, Shapira wrote, were “not compatible with the basic principles of proportionality, reasonability, economy and efficiency.” 
  
 Personal grooming expenses for the prime minister and his wife totaled well over $100 a day, which Sharpira found to be more than double the budgeted amount. 
  
 Some of the findings could lead to criminal proceedings. According to the report, Sara Netanyahu finagled employing an electrician who was barred by protocol because he was a personal friend and a member of the prime minister’s political party, Likud. 
  
 Justice authorities will have to decide how to address other breaches, including money kept temporarily from recycling bottles from the official residence several years ago and a set of patio furniture bought for the official residence but transferred to the private one. While these were noted in the report, they were not officially investigated. 
  
 “Public trust in government institutions is a cornerstone of every democracy,” Shapira wrote, adding that such institutions must gain this trust by adhering to both law and “moral norms.” While he welcomed the apparent cost-cutting after 2012, the comptroller said “one would expect an elected public official to demonstrate extra sensitivity ... and serve as an exemplary model of saving public funds.” 
  
 Netanyahu was well-prepared for the report, as his attorneys and aides responded swiftly with a press conference, stressing there were no grounds for criminal concerns. The prime minister, said his spokesman, Nir Hefetz, respects the report and has instructed his staff to act on its recommendations. 
  
 A statement from Netanyahu's Likud party accused the news media of pushing the issue for weeks in a “clear effort to remove the prime minister from office … through a focus on irrelevant minutia." 
  
 The statement added that the uproar was distracting from "the real issue at hand,” which is “who will defend Israel in the face of the real security threats and pressure from the international community”—Netanyahu or rivals Herzog and Tzipi Livni. 
  
 But for others, money matters are a real issue, and the prime minister's spending has struck a nerve with some voters who are concerned about the high cost of living and are demanding what they consider a more just distribution of resources. 
  
 Housing prices have soared since Netanyahu took office, and with 1.6 million people below the poverty line, Israel has the third highest poverty rate in the 34-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
  
 Sobelman is a special correspondent ||||| A damning official report into spending by the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, at his official residence in Jerusalem and private seaside home has accused him of excessive and improper use of public funds, including spending huge amounts on takeaway food, hairdressing and cleaning.. 
  
  
  
 Prepared by Israel’s state comptroller, Yosef Shapira – and passed to the country’s attorney general to consider whether any laws have been broken – the report is potentially highly damaging to Netanyahu, coming only a month before Israel’s elections. 
  
 The government auditor’s report appears to confirm allegations that have been rumbling for several years of excessive spending by Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, and a lack of proper management of the costs in the prime minister’s official home. 
  
 It has come on top of lurid allegations, detailed in a civil court case, of the high-handed and abusive treatment of staff in the official residence by Sara – claims strongly denied by the Netanyahus. 
  
 What has made the issue potentially politically toxic in the middle of an election campaign – where Netanyahu is running neck and neck with his main rivals – is the sharp contrast it has afforded to Israelis suffering under a high cost of living. 
  
 The claims of potential illegal conduct centre on two issues: the so called “bottle-gate affair”, which saw Sara Netanyahu pocket deposits on bottles of drinks paid for by the state, later reimbursed; and claims that garden furniture bought for the official residence was sent to their private home. 
  
 Among spending items criticised in the report is a bill to the Israeli state for more than $18,000 (£11,700) for takeaway meals in a single year, despite the fact that the Netanyahus are provided with a cook and staff at the government’s expense. 
  
 Another expenditure highlighted was the cost of cleaning for Netanyahu’s private home in the upmarket beach resort of Caesarea. It cost the Israeli state $2,120 a month – more than the monthly income of many Israelis – despite the fact that the Netanyahus spend the majority of their time at the official residence in Jerusalem. 
  
 Netanyahu was also criticised for excessive spending on a raft of other items including hairdressing, clothes, water consumption and electrical repairs made at the taxpayer’s expense at his private home. 
  
 The official examination of the expenses – incurred between 2009-13 – showed that cleaning costs claimed at the Netanyahus’ two residences doubled without explanation from an already hefty $138,000 in 2009 at the official residence alone. 
  
 Perhaps most damaging of all is the revelation that employees of the prime minister’s office were obliged to pay for some of Netanyahu’s personal expenses out of their own pockets – often small sums and not reimbursed. 
  
 “The meaning of a failure to pay back these invoices from petty cash is that employees absorb the cost of private expenditures of the prime minister or his family,” the comptroller wrote in his report. “When an employee is forced to pay from his own pocket for an expenditure by the prime minister, this is improper administration and it makes no difference whether the sum is large or small.” 
  
 In a scathing assessment, Shapira concluded: “The way in which the budget of the prime minister’s residence was managed during the years 2009 until 2012 does not comply with the basic principles of money management, saving and efficiency and is likely to result in a waste of public funds.” 
  
 One of the murkier episodes detailed in the report relates to the employment of an electrician who was a member of Netanyahu’s own Likud party, and who, because of that, was not authorised to do state-funded work at their private home. 
  
 The report noted that nobody examined the need for the work – which continued for three months – and there was no examination of whether the work was actually performed, as everything was coordinated between Sara Netanyahu or one of her staff. 
  
 Replying to the report’s findings, Netanyahu’s party issued a statement saying that while Netanyahu respected “the findings … in relation to all the matters which were investigated … there is absolutely no indication of any assault on the public’s integrity and certainly no indication of any criminal transgressions.” 
  
 The statement added: “A large portion of the recommendations in the report were implemented even prior to its release. The prime minister has issued a directive to implement the remaining recommendations in the best and most effective manner possible.” 
  
 Discussion of the lifestyle enjoyed by the Netanyahus has become one of the longest-running soap operas in Israeli media and politics, both taking a star turn in the court cases brought by former staff – who have complained of Sara Netanyahu’s alleged abusive behaviour and tantrums. 
  
 Condemned as “evil gossip” by the couple, the saga has prompted thinly veiled comparisons over the last year between Sara and Marie Antoinette and arch digs at the imperial pretensions of Bibi, as the prime minister is nicknamed. 
  
 The controversy has been exacerbated by the Netanyahus’ own efforts in recent days to pre-empt the report. 
  
 Those efforts saw them invite television celebrity interior designer Moshik Galamin (a friend of the couple) to inspect their official residence on the eve of the report’s publication, with Galamin videoed as he was shown round by Sara. The tour was then posted on the prime minister’s Facebook page. 
  
 The video purports to depict run-down furnishings, peeling paint and a grotty kitchen, which Galamin declares looks “like the kitchen of a Romanian orphanage from 1954”. 
  
 “The moment you come here at night, you’ll catch the prime minister on this chair snacking on all sorts of forbidden things, like a sandwich or yellow cheese,” Sara tells the designer, in what appears to be an attempt to reinforce an image of him as an ordinary guy. “The dish we like best is schnitzel and mashed potatoes and pasta!” 
  
 The problem – as the reports in Israel’s media have extensively charged – is that the video appears to have been disingenuous at the very least. 
  
 The kitchen featured in Galamin’s video, say critics, is the general kitchen of the residence where employees take their meals, apparently infrequently used by the prime minister. 
  
 The Netanyahus’ own kitchen – not shown in the video but later displayed on Israeli television – is reportedly a newly renovated affair located on another floor. 
  
 The Labour MP Shelly Yachimovich, who has in the past called on Israel’s media to leave off Sara Netanyahu, was scathing ahead of publication. 
  
 Describing the video as “pathetic” and “ridiculous”, she accused Netanyahu of “cowardice” for putting his wife forward to deflect the heat. “He passed responsibility to his wife ... He put her in centre-stage saying: ‘I’m off to work, Sara will show you the house, that’s her kingdom.’ Beyond the chauvinistic aspect, this was done with the next day’s state comptroller’s report in mind, to create the alibi of ‘it’s not me, it’s her’.” 
  
 “Ultimately,” she added, “we look [to] our leaders, we want them to lead their people, not live like emperors, disconnected completely from the lives of ordinary people.” |||||