The County Commission on Tuesday unanimously agreed to restore the Confederate flag that had been removed from the McPherson Governmental Complex two weeks ago. 
  
 The Marion County Commission on Tuesday unanimously agreed to restore the Confederate flag that had been removed from the McPherson Governmental Complex two weeks ago. 
  
  
  
 Several members of the public spoke in favor of restoring the flag during the commission’s bi-monthly meeting on Tuesday morning. At the end of the meeting, the commission unanimously agreed to restore the flag. It will also create a historical display so that people can understand the significance of the Confederate flag as well as the other flags flying in front of the complex. 
  
  
  
 The Confederate flag was removed in the wake of the June 17 killing of African-American churchgoers in Charleston, South Carolina. The accused killer had expressed racist beliefs and had been pictured waving the Confederate flag. 
  
  
  
 Towns throughout the South removed the flag. 
  
  
  
 Interim County Administrator Bill Kauffman decided to remove the flag because of the “perceived connotations of displaying the flag at governmental agencies,” said Marion County spokeswoman Barbra Hernandez. 
  
  
  
 At the same time, the county is “respectful of history,” Hernandez explained. On that note, many people throughout the County voiced concern over removing the flag. 
  
  
  
 “What I realized is that we have not done justice to the historical display,” commission Chairman Stan McClain said at Tuesday’s meeting. “I’m sure most folks are in favor of educating the community.” 
  
  
  
 McClain said he would ask the Marion County Historical Commission to create some sort of informational display or outdoor museum about the flags, or a comprehensive historical trail around both the McPherson complex and the nearby Ocala-Marion County Veterans Memorial Park, which contains a statue of Confederate soldier Johnny Reb. 
  
  
  
 “This will help identify opportunities for connectivity and education about local history within the complex grounds,” the commission said in a statement later Tuesday. 
  
  
  
 The four other flags flying in front of the McPherson complex are the American, British, French and Spanish flags — representing the countries that at one point ruled Florida. The Confederacy ruled Florida between 1861 and 1865. 
  
  
  
 The flag at the McPherson center is the third Confederate flag. It has a red band, which is also referred to as a bloody stripe and symbolizes fighting instead of surrendering, which the second Confederate flag, with its white background, is interpreted as meaning. 
  
  
  
 Marion County resident Chuck Pardee, one of several people who spoke at the meeting in support of restoring the flag, said that it should not have been singled out for removal. 
  
  
  
 “There have been enough atrocities taking place beneath each flag,” he said. 
  
  
  
 Ocala resident John Horrighs said removing the flag was “bowing to political correctness.” 
  
  
  
 McClain had conferred with Kauffman about the flag before its removal, giving Kauffman the authority to make a decision. The board itself was not involved in the decision to remove the flag. 
  
  
  
 Horrighs, Pardee and other county residents spoke during the public comments portion of Tuesday’s meeting. During the commissioners’ comments portion, at the end of the meeting, McClain suggested making the flag part of a historical display. The board voted unanimously to put it back up in the meantime. 
  
  
  
 Several members of the public applauded that decision. 
  
  
  
 Notably absent from the meeting was anyone speaking in support of the flag’s removal. Local NAACP President Reggie Willis said that if he had known that a discussion of the flag was going to be part of the meeting, he and others from the NAACP would have come to speak in support of Kauffman’s decision. 
  
  
  
 As it was, the discussion was spontaneous and not a planned agenda item at the board meeting. 
  
  
  
 “It does have the appearance of sort of under-handedness to the degree that it was rather public that the county administrator took it off,” Willis said. 
  
  
  
 Willis said he understands that the flag has different meanings to different people. “They call it heritage. From my perspective every time I see a racist [incident], I see the flag,” Willis continued, adding that throughout history, the re-emergence of the Confederate flag has often coincided with racist incidents. 
  
  
  
 For Willis, the flag has little to do with Southern heritage. 
  
  
  
 “I’m just as Southern as everyone else,” Willis said. “I was born in Texas, but when you talk about that flag, I have a different perspective.” 
  
  
  
 Most African-Americans will feel the same way, he added — so, for that reason, putting the flag in a museum as part of a historical display is a more appropriate place for it than flying in front of a government building. 
  
  
  
 “When taxpayers come to pay taxes, you have a symbol there that doesn’t necessarily represent everyone,” added Darrin Williams, an African-American man who was born and raised in Marion County and still retains residency, while living in Jacksonville. 
  
  
  
 “I really love Marion County, so this [decision] hit home for me,” said Williams, who is also a member of the African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church, the same kind of church where the shootings in Charleston took place. 
  
  
  
 Williams said the decision to raise the flag is offensive. “It’s like slapping the Charleston nine in the face….now that the grieving period is over,” he said. “It’s just really sad.” 
  
  
  
 Williams said the board should have decided to put a discussion of the flag on the agenda for the next board meeting in two weeks, instead of quickly deciding to put the flag back up. 
  
  
  
 “I would have hoped they would have had the gall to say, ‘Let’s have a conversation about this.’ I don’t believe that conversation was held fully,” Williams said. 
  
  
  
 The commissioners did not debate the issue at Tuesday’s meeting. 
  
  
  
 “This is a community issue. Whenever we make decisions, it should be transparent, and this decision doesn’t come off as transparent,” Williams added. 
  
  
  
 Kristine Crane can be reached at 867-4117 or kristine.crane@ocala.com. ||||| Marion County commissioners voted unanimously Tuesday to put the Confederate flag back up at the county's government complex. 
  
 The flag was removed Thursday and temporarily replaced with a flag with the seal of Marion County. 
  
 County officials said the decision to remove the flag last week was in response to growing controversy surrounding the flag following the shooting deaths of nine black men and women at a historic church in Charleston, South Carolina on June 17. The suspect, 21-year-old Dylann Roof, had posed with a Confederate flag in photos posted on a website that displayed a racist manifesto attributed to him. 
  
 After the deadly shootings, Marion County's interim county administrator, Bill Kauffman, consulted with County Commission Chairman Stan McClain and decided to remove the Confederate flag, which has flown outside the county's government complex for more than two decades. 
  
 Within minutes of Tuesday morning's vote, the Civil War-era flag was seen flying once again outside the government complex as one of the five national flags which have flown over Florida since European explorers first landed on its shores more than 500 years ago. The other four are Spanish, French, British and American flags. 
  
 A flag with the seal of Marion County (far right) flies in place of the Confederate flag at the Marion County government complex Thursday, July 2, 2015. (PHOTO/Dave D'Marko, Staff) 
  
 The Confederate flag was returned Tuesday, July 7, 2015. (PHOTO/Dave D'Marko, Staff) 
  
 Reaction was mixed last week when Marion County replaced the Confederate flag. 
  
 "We live in America, and last time I checked it was a democracy. So, here in Marion County, which has what 300,000 people, how can one man decide to take it off a flagpole?" pondered David Stone, with the Florida Southern Pride Ride. 
  
 "I think it should be removed," said Monaco Benjamin. "What value does it have to us now? That was years ago, and so many things have changed." 
  
 Reaction by Marion County residents who spoke with us Tuesday was overwhelmingly against the decision to remove the flag in the first place. 
  
 "You've made a serious mistake," said Judy Delk. "You are trying to unwrite or rewrite history." 
  
 "He should be ashamed of himself, because he has caused a needless divide in this county that we did not have," said Wayne Radley, referring to the county administrator. 
  
  
  
 "The fact remains it is part of our common and shared history," said John Horrigh as he watched the flag being raised back up with the others. "History is not always pretty, but it remains as our history. It's back where it should be." 
  
 Commissioner McClain said he plans to write a letter to Marion County's Historical Society, asking for their assistance with markers to explain each flag's historical significance. 
  
 "It's a passionate issue on two sides," said McClain. "What we are trying to do is interpret the historical relevance of this display we have. It's either take the whole thing down, or try to use it as a historical tool from a historical perspective." 
  
 The five flags currently fly over Marion County's fallen officers memorial, something the commissioners agreed doesn't make sense. So, the county may move all five flags somewhere else on the government complex where it will be easier for people to learn about the history of each one. |||||