Italian Cavasin became the eighth man to take on the manager's role since president, and fellow countryman, Francesco Becchetti took over the East London club in July 2014.
But he could not arrest a worrying sequence that has seen Orient win just once in eight matches in League Two.
Defender Burgess stole up unmarked to powerfully head home a corner from Carl Baker on 57 minutes to settle the contest.
The opening half was a period of half-chances, although Pompey did have the ball in the net when Conor Chaplin's first-time flick into the net was ruled out for offside.
The visitors were given an excellent opportunity to break the deadlock when O's keeper Alex Cisak attempted to send a short pass to a defender, but only succeeded in picking out Chaplin.
The Orient shot-stopper saved his blushes by saving the striker's effort.
Orient felt they should have had a penalty when Paul McCallum went to ground after 12 minutes but referee Christopher Sarginson waved away their frantic appeals.
Having fallen behind, Orient were unable to break down a well-organised Portsmouth side who almost doubled their lead when O's full-back Nicky Hunt headed a cross against his own post before the ball was scrambled clear.
Reports supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Leyton Orient 0, Portsmouth 1.
Second Half ends, Leyton Orient 0, Portsmouth 1.
Attempt missed. Carl Baker (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Yvan Erichot (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Milan Lalkovic (Portsmouth).
Attempt blocked. Sandro Semedo (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Attempt blocked. Tom Parkes (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Attempt blocked. Tom Parkes (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Corner,  Leyton Orient. Conceded by Christian Burgess.
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Ollie Palmer replaces Ulrich N'Nomo.
Substitution, Portsmouth. Milan Lalkovic replaces Kyle Bennett.
Attempt missed. Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the left.
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Tom Parkes.
Attempt blocked. Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Attempt missed. Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) left footed shot from the left side of the box is high and wide to the left.
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Callum Kennedy.
Attempt blocked. Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Attempt missed. Curtis Main (Portsmouth) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Jay Simpson (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Christian Burgess (Portsmouth).
Foul by Alan Dunne (Leyton Orient).
Gary Roberts (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Portsmouth. Curtis Main replaces Conor Chaplin.
Substitution, Portsmouth. Danny Rose replaces Amine Linganzi.
Foul by Gavin Massey (Leyton Orient).
Amine Linganzi (Portsmouth) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Jens Janse (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Amine Linganzi (Portsmouth).
Foul by Jens Janse (Leyton Orient).
Kyle Bennett (Portsmouth) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Goal!  Leyton Orient 0, Portsmouth 1. Christian Burgess (Portsmouth) header from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner.
Corner,  Portsmouth. Conceded by Sandro Semedo.
Attempt saved. Alan Dunne (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Attempt blocked. Sandro Semedo (Leyton Orient) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Ulrich N'Nomo (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Amine Linganzi (Portsmouth).
Ulrich N'Nomo (Leyton Orient) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Gary Roberts (Portsmouth).
Second Half begins Leyton Orient 0, Portsmouth 0.
Substitution, Leyton Orient. Alan Dunne replaces Paul McCallum.