New Delhi (CNN) A disaster was narrowly averted in eastern India after a runaway train carrying up to 1,000 passengers rolled with speed for several miles before being brought to an emergency stop by railway staff. 
  
 Video on social media shows the train, which was traveling Saturday evening from the western state of Gujarat to Odisha state in the east, speeding past stations as onlookers and passengers scream helplessly. 
  
 The train was eventually stopped after railway workers placed wooden wedges on the tracks, bringing it to a crunching halt. 
  
 None of the estimated 1,000 passengers were injured in the incident and the train reached its final destination two hours past its schedule, said Jaideep Gupta, a divisional railway manager in the Indian Railways' eastern branch. 
  
 There remains confusion among officials as to the true number of passengers aboard the train, with East Coast Railway's chief public relations officer JP Mishra suggesting that several hundred passengers may have already exited the train prior to the carriages becoming detached from the engine and the true number may be closer to 500. 
  
 Read More ||||| Seven railway staff were suspended in connection with the lapses that led to the coaches of an Express train to travel a few km without engine in Odisha, a railway official said on April 8. 
  
 While five railway staff were placed under suspension on Sunday morning, two had been suspended soon after the coaches of Ahmedabad-Puri Express rolled down at Titlagarh in Balangir district after detachment of engine on Saturday night, he said. The suspended staff included two engine drivers, three carriage repairing staff and two operating department employees, an East Coast Railway (ECoR) spokesman said. 
  
 A possible disaster was averted after Ahmedabad-Puri Express train with 22 coaches rolled down without engine. The coaches travelled from Titlagarh station in Balangir district towards Kesinga in Kalahandi district after the engine was detached to be attached at the other end. All passengers were safe and the coaches were stopped by alert staff by putting stones and bringing the train to a halt, the spokesman said, adding the section from Titlagarh towards Kesinga has a downward slope. 
  
 The incident happened apparently due to non-application of skid-brake on the wheels of the coaches by the staff deployed there. According to rules, the staff should have put the skids. “When engine is detached to be attached at the other end, coaches should be secured with skids at the wheels. In this case, it appears that skids were not placed properly. Facts will be known after detailed enquiry,” he said. 
  
 DRM Sambalpur Jaideep Gupta has ordered a senior officer-level probe consisting of divisional heads of different departments. Soon after the incident, an engine was sent from Titlagarh to ferry the coaches, he said. 
  
 ECoR General Manager Umesh Singh has sought immediate corrective action and stringent action in the incident. Strictest action will be initiated against any negligent act endangering safety of trains. Safety is non-negotiable and cannot be compromised with. Any Railway employee found guilty will be taken up severely, Singh said. 
  
 In the wake of the incident, Chief Safety Officer of ECoR S.S.Mishra has advised a special safety drive at all stations in East Coast where engine reversal of mail and express trains takes place and also at terminals where trains terminate. Some of these stations are Talcher, Bhadrakh, Angul, Paradip, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Puri and Sambalpur. ||||| Rating is available when the video has been rented. 
  
 This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. ||||| This article is over 9 months old 
  
 Twenty two carriages roll out of control for seven miles in Odisha state before being stopped by rocks placed on track 
  
 India’s railway ministry said a “ghastly” accident had narrowly been avoided after 22 passenger carriages carrying about 1,000 people became detached from a train engine and sped backwards for miles before being stopped. 
  
 The runaway carriages rolled for seven miles in the north-eastern state of Odisha before being brought to a shuddering halt by rocks placed on the tracks by railway staff. 
  
 A spokesman for the railway ministry’s eastern division said on Sunday that none of about 1,000 passengers had been injured in the incident on Saturday night. 
  
 Seven railway employees who were reported not to have followed proper procedures were suspended and an investigation was opened into how the carriages became separated during the journey from the western state of Gujarat to Odisha, said JP Mishra, a spokesman. 
  
 Authorities believe that brakes normally applied when carriages are detached or attached to an engine were either incorrectly used or overlooked altogether. 
  
 “Something ghastly could have happened and it was averted by alert staff. Safety cannot be compromised,” Mishra told AFP. He said more heads were likely to roll, adding: “Everybody in the railways [ministry] is aghast and shocked.” 
  
 Mobile footage posted on social media showed the carriages speeding past a railway platform as helpless onlookers screamed and yelled at passengers to pull the train’s emergency brake. 
  
 More than 22 million passengers commute daily on about 9,000 trains across India. 
  
 The incident is the latest to beset the creaking rail network, which dates to the colonial era. Last November 13 coaches of an express train derailed in northern India, killing three people and leaving nine injured. A year before, 146 people died in a similar disaster. 
  
 A 2012 government report said that almost 15,000 people were killed in various ways every year on India’s railways and described the loss of life as an annual “massacre”. |||||