The European champions looked in control when Ronaldo scored twice in the first 18 minutes.
His opener was a penalty and his second was a header from Nacho's cross - his eighth La Liga goal in four games.
But Carlos Carmona pulled one back and Duje Cop missed a penalty for the visitors with 13 minutes left.
The Croatia international, who appeared to check his pulse just before taking the kick, fired high and wide after Nacho was penalised for fouling Victor Rodriguez.
Real went seven points clear briefly, but Sevilla beat Valencia 2-1 on Saturday evening to trim that lead by one point. Champions Barcelona can take it back down to four points on Sunday at Real Sociedad (19:45 GMT).
Ronaldo's double takes him up to 10 La Liga goals for the season, two above Barcelona pair Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez in the golden boot race.
Match ends, Real Madrid 2, Sporting de Gijón 1.
Second Half ends, Real Madrid 2, Sporting de Gijón 1.
Corner,  Real Madrid. Conceded by Lillo.
Attempt blocked. Isco (Real Madrid) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Cristiano Ronaldo.
Attempt saved. Cristiano Ronaldo (Real Madrid) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Isco.
Corner,  Sporting de Gijón. Conceded by Nacho.
Attempt blocked. Marco Asensio (Real Madrid) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Isco.
Attempt saved. Duje Cop (Sporting de Gijón) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Isma López with a cross.
Substitution, Sporting de Gijón. Nacho Cases replaces Rachid.
Substitution, Real Madrid. Isco replaces Mateo Kovacic.
Penalty missed! Bad penalty by Duje Cop (Sporting de Gijón) right footed shot is high and wide to the right. Duje Cop should be disappointed.
Nacho (Real Madrid) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Penalty conceded by Nacho (Real Madrid) after a foul in the penalty area.
Penalty Sporting de Gijón. Víctor Rodríguez draws a foul in the penalty area.
Substitution, Sporting de Gijón. Víctor Rodríguez replaces Moi Gómez.
Substitution, Sporting de Gijón. Borja Viguera replaces Carlos Carmona.
Foul by Marcelo (Real Madrid).
Lillo (Sporting de Gijón) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Lucas Vázquez (Real Madrid) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Cristiano Ronaldo with a cross following a set piece situation.
Substitution, Real Madrid. Marcelo replaces Sergio Ramos.
Substitution, Real Madrid. Marco Asensio replaces James Rodríguez.
Cristiano Ronaldo (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Lillo (Sporting de Gijón).
Attempt missed. Luka Modric (Real Madrid) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Mateo Kovacic.
Foul by James Rodríguez (Real Madrid).
Rachid (Sporting de Gijón) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Carlos Carmona (Sporting de Gijón) is shown the yellow card.
Pepe (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Carlos Carmona (Sporting de Gijón).
Attempt missed. Cristiano Ronaldo (Real Madrid) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Luka Modric with a cross following a corner.
Corner,  Real Madrid. Conceded by Jorge Meré.
Attempt blocked. Mateo Kovacic (Real Madrid) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Pepe.
Danilo (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Moi Gómez (Sporting de Gijón).
Attempt saved. Nacho (Real Madrid) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Cristiano Ronaldo.
Rachid (Sporting de Gijón) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Mateo Kovacic (Real Madrid) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Rachid (Sporting de Gijón).
Foul by Lucas Vázquez (Real Madrid).
Isma López (Sporting de Gijón) wins a free kick in the attacking half.