There has been a tremendous amount of media speculation about an incident which took place on January 22, 2011 at a Venice, California jewelry store named Kamofie and Company. 
  
 As a result of the incident, actress Lindsay Lohan has been charged by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office for alleged felony theft of a diamond necklace. 
  
 Speculation as to what occurred that day has been the subject of intense rumor in the media and elsewhere. Many individuals want to be able to see the video streams from the jewelry store’s surveillance cameras, and we have obtained the exclusive license for them. 
  
 The tapes speak for themselves. 
  
 We plan to release the video streams at this site shortly. Please stay tuned for more information and bookmark this site. 
  
 If you wish to be notified at the time the site becomes live, it would be our pleasure to inform you. 
  
 Please enter your email address here and we’ll try to send you a reminder at that time. 
  
 Please join our mailing list 
  
  
  
 Your Email: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 By agreement with the Associated Press, members of the press may contact AP Images at www.apimages.com should you wish to acquire the rights to publish any of the content of the security camera video for news reporting purposes. 
  
 Cordially, 
  
 The Management for necklacevideo.com 
  
 You may contact us directly at: 
  
 info@necklacevideo.com 
  
 Or by mail: 
  
 The Spencer Company 
  
 Post Office Box 1862 
  
 Beverly Hills, California 90213-1862 ||||| A web site created by a Beverly Hills, Calif., software company claimed to have "exclusive license" to the surveillance tape of Lindsay Lohan in the Venice Beach jewelry store where she allegedly stole a $2,500 necklace. 
  
 On the web site, necklacevideo.com, is a statement that it will stream segments of the video, though no date or time is given. 
  
 "Speculation as to what occurred that day has been the subject of intense rumor in the media and elsewhere," a statement on the Web site said. "Many individuals want to be able to see the video streams from the jewelry store's surveillance cameras, and we have obtained the exclusive license for them. 
  
 "The tapes speak for themselves," said the statement on the site, which was credited to The Spencer Company, a Beverly Hills, Calif., software company. 
  
 Cristopher Spencer, the president of The Spencer Company and a spokesperson for the jewelry store, Kamofie & Company, said the company decided to release the tape due to media interest and concerns that the media was mischaracterizing its contents. 
  
 "The bottom line is we felt there was far too much speculation about the video recording, and that it was right for the public to be able to see the video itself," Spencer said in a statement released to ABCNews.com. 
  
 The celebrity web site RadarOnline.com reported today that Kamofie & Co. sold the surveillance video footage of the incident, and made more than $35,000 on the sale to different oulets. 
  
 "The jewelry store wanted a bidding war to maximize profits," RadarOnline quotes a source as saying. "They chopped up the sale to different outlets to make as much money as possible." 
  
 "Entertainment Tonight" obtained stills taken from the video, which shows Lohan in a black top trying on jewelry, with a video timestamp of Jan. 21, 2011. 
  
 The celebrity news show said it will air footage of the actress' shopping trip on Monday. 
  
 The Los Angeles District Attorney's Office formally charged Lohan with felony grand theft on Feb. 9. If convicted, Lohan could go to California state prison for up to three years. 
  
 The 24-year-old actress already has been to jail three times in the past three years for DUI, drug possession and probation violations. 
  
 Lohan reportedly has said that the necklace was loaned to her by Kamofie & Co. and her assistant returned it to police. 
  
 After detectives started looking into the case and began preparing a search warrant, a friend of Lohan's brought the necklace to the Pacific Division police station. 
  
 The starlet, who is out on $40,000 bail, was told by Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Keith L. Schwartz in February that if she accepts a plea deal from the district attorney and pleads guilty or no contest, she will go to jail. 
  
 "This case does involve jail time. Period," Schwartz told Lohan. "If you plead in front of me -- if this case resolves in front of me -- you are going to jail. Period. I don't want you under any apprehension. You will be going to jail." 
  
 Schwartz continued the case one more time, to March 10, to give Lohan's lawyer Shawn Chapman Holley a chance to review the evidence from prosecutors, while adding, "I get the impression that you're not going to accept the DA's offer." 
  
 If she rejects the prosecutor's offer and pleads not guilty, Schwartz will set the case for a preliminary hearing to go to a jury trial. And Lohan will go before another Superior Court judge who could still send her to jail for violating her probation stemming from her 2007 DUI case. 
  
 It's not the first time the star has been connected to a theft investigation. 
  
 In 2009, British police investigated the disappearance of $400,000 worth of Dior jewels from a photo shoot Lohan did with Britain's Elle magazine. At the time, Elle released a statement exonerating Lohan, saying, "Elle has no reason to believe that Lindsay Lohan was in any way responsible." 
  
 In 2008, Lohan was sued by a college student who claimed the actress stole and wore her $12,000 mink coat, and in April 2010, Lohan was questioned by police in connection with a stolen $35,000 Rolex. The person who filed the report withdrew her complaint before police could determine if a crime had been committed. ||||| This weekend brings a major new wrinkle in the case against Lindsay Lohan , in which she's accused of felony theft by a jewelry store owner who says the actress stole a $2,500 necklace in January.Kamofie & Co. has just sold the surveillance video allegedly showing Lindsay Lohan leaving the store with the unpaid merchandise, according to a new report from RadarOnline.com . And the sale, reportedly brokered by a media dealer who peddled the footage to both U.S. and international outlets, is estimated to be earning the Southern California jeweler more than $35,000."The jewelry store wanted a bidding war to maximize profits," a source tells Radar. Entertainment Tonight is reportedly one buyer; the show is expected to air the controversial footage on Monday.On the one hand, public scrutiny of the video could further embarrass the troubled actress, who left rehab in early January, after months of trying to resolve her legal woes so she can repair her image and revive her career.On the other hand, the prosecution's case against Lohan is in jeopardy, now that its key witness has made such a money-hungry move. In the past, Lohan's team has suggested she was set up, and as the opportunistic jeweler walks off with thousands before the case is even tried, the store's claim that they were victims of theft weakens."Lindsay Lohan may have just gotten the luckiest break of her life," RadarOnline's managing editor and executive vice president, David Perel, tells. "If the criminal case comes down to her word versus the word of the jeweler, it will be Advantage: Lindsay. The jewelry store has now used the case for profit, and Lindsay's lawyer is sure to have a very compelling argument that the cash-for-tape scandal destroys the credibility of Lindsay's accuser." |||||