Brock Turner in an undated Facebook photo. Facebook 
  
 In the few days since ex–Stanford swimmer Brock Turner was given a six-month jail sentence for sexually assaulting an unconscious woman, much of the internet’s chatter has converged on a heart-wrenching, beautifully argued, deeply felt statement the woman read to him in court. It’s a devastating account of the survivor’s revictimization during her trial, a powerful indictment of the lighter sentences imposed on white, wealthy sex criminals, and a haunting depiction of how rape culture exerts its influence on college campuses and in courts of law. The victim provided her statement to BuzzFeed News; the page been viewed more than 4 million times since Friday afternoon. 
  
 Now, the internet has an opposing letter to read: a defense of Turner reportedly written by his father, Dan. Posted early Sunday morning by Michele Dauber, a Stanford law professor and sociologist who led the school’s revision of its sexual assault policies in recent years, the letter appears to have been written prior to Brock’s sentencing to advocate for probation only, in lieu of any jail time. 
  
 The sentence Brock got—six months in county jail and three years of probation—was extraordinarily light; he could have served up to 14 years in state prison. The judge opted for just a few months in jail (the Santa Clara County district attorney predicts he’ll only serve three of the six) because, the judge argued, a prison sentence would “have a severe impact on [Turner].” Turner will also have to register as a sex offender. 
  
 That generous decision is an echo of Dan Turner’s letter, which essentially argues that Brock has already suffered enough for his crimes. This piece is a near-perfect complement to the victim’s gripping 7,200-word essay—Dan Turner defends his son with nearly every thin excuse his son’s victim demolishes in her letter; he elevates all the rape-apologist, victim-diminishing tropes she exposes as misogynist garbage. 
  
 #brockturner father: son not "violent" only got "20 mins of action" shouldn't have to go to prison. @thehuntinground pic.twitter.com/IFECJs687b — Michele Dauber (@mldauber) June 5, 2016 
  
 Dan’s letter begins by describing how his son’s life has been thrown off track by his sexual assault, but never assigns responsibility to Brock, who repeatedly defended himself by saying that the victim enjoyed the assault and even had an orgasm. It’s not “Brock’s sexual assault” or “Brock’s actions” that occurred in January 2015, according to Dan; it’s “the events.” He spends five full sentences discussing Brock’s loss of appetite, as if that’s plenty punishment for his deeds. Perhaps he was trying to avoid the tone-deaf protests put forth by so many other Brock defenders, including the probation officer who helped determine his sentence, who’ve argued that the loss of his swimming scholarship is a major retribution that should figure into his sentence. In her essay, the survivor of Brock’s assault eloquently explains why that’s another symptom of a justice system sick with racial and socioeconomic inequity: 
  
 The probation officer weighed the fact that he has surrendered a hard earned swimming scholarship. How fast Brock swims does not lessen the severity of what happened to me, and should not lessen the severity of his punishment. If a first time offender from an underprivileged background was accused of three felonies and displayed no accountability for his actions other than drinking, what would his sentence be? 
  
 Later in his letter, Dan Turner writes that jail time is “not the appropriate punishment” for Brock because “he has no prior criminal history and has never been violent to anyone including his actions on the night of Jan 17th 2015.” That is patently untrue. A jury convicted Brock of three violent offenses: assault with intent to commit rape of an intoxicated person; sexually penetrating an intoxicated person with a foreign object; and sexually penetrating an unconscious person with a foreign object. Brock’s victim made a persuasive argument for why Brock’s lack of criminal history is no reason to let him off with a slap on the wrist: 
  
 As a society, we cannot forgive everyone’s first sexual assault or digital rape. It doesn’t make sense. The seriousness of rape has to be communicated clearly, we should not create a culture that suggests we learn that rape is wrong through trial and error. The consequences of sexual assault needs to be severe enough that people feel enough fear to exercise good judgment even if they are drunk, severe enough to be preventative. 
  
 Dan also furthers the tired, insulting, victim-blaming narrative that holds drunk women responsible for their own sexual assaults when he discusses Brock’s possible future as an anti-drinking activist. “By having people like Brock educate others on college campuses is how society can begin to break the cycle of binge drinking and its unfortunate results,” he writes. The unfortunate results of binge drinking are manifold, but they do not include sexual assault. Brock’s victim writes: 
  
 Alcohol is not an excuse. Is it a factor? Yes. But alcohol was not the one who stripped me, fingered me, had my head dragging against the ground, with me almost fully naked. Having too much to drink was an amateur mistake that I admit to, but it is not criminal. … Regretting drinking is not the same as regretting sexual assault. We were both drunk, the difference is I did not take off your pants and underwear, touch you inappropriately, and run away. 
  
 Starting an anti-drinking foundation and becoming an anti-drinking activist is something celebrities do to manage their reputations after they incur a DUI; no sane person would expect Brock to devote the rest of his life to fighting teen alcoholism, much less be any good at it. But his father claims that a sole sentence of probation would allow Brock to “give back to society in a net positive way.” Net positive: as in, when the sum of negative consequences of Brock’s sexual assault are combined with the sum of whatever positive influence he could affect with his anti-drinking lectures, the positives outweigh the negatives. Dan Turner is saying that the harm Brock caused by sexually assaulting an unconscious woman and antagonizing her for a year on trial is so minimal, he could more than make up for it by lecturing students about keggers. 
  
 But the worst parts of Dan’s letter are his grave mischaracterizations of rape as sex. “[Brock’s] life will never be the one that he dreamed about and worked so hard to achieve. That is a steep price to pay for 20 minutes of action out of his 20 plus years of life,” Dan writes, as if Brock should get special credit for not raping anyone during the first 19 years of his life. Committing sexual assault is not getting “action,” and 20 minutes may have been short for Brock, but it is not a short time for a victim enduring a sexual assault. Brock’s assault was not over when 20 minutes were up—his victim will forever contend with its persistent, damaging consequences. She will pay for his actions for the rest of her life. 
  
 Dan, like Brock and his lawyer, deny the very existence of sexual assault by equating it with the kind of casual sex other college students enjoy: “Brock can do so many positive things as a contributor to society and is totally committed to educating other college age students about the dangers of alcohol consumption and sexual promiscuity.” Alcohol did not sexually assault Brock’s victim, and hook-up culture did not threaten her dignity and self-worth. Anonymous, drunken sex did not land Brock in jail. In her letter, Brock’s victim explains the willful ignorance someone must employ in order to conflate sexual assault with casual sex. “It is deeply offensive that [Brock] would try and dilute rape with a suggestion of ‘promiscuity.’ By definition rape is not the absence of promiscuity; rape is the absence of consent,” she writes. “It perturbs me deeply that he can’t even see that distinction.” ||||| Court statement by father of Brock Turner adds to concern over ‘lenient’ six-month sentence he received for intent to rape an unconscious woman 
  
 The father of a former Stanford University athlete convicted on multiple charges of sexual assault has said his son should not have to go to prison for “20 minutes of action”. 
  
 Brock Turner, a former swimmer at Stanford University, was on Thursday sentenced to six months’ imprisonment and probation for sexually assaulting an unconscious woman. 
  
 The 20-year-old from Dayton, Ohio – who was convicted of three felonies, including assault with intent to rape – faced a maximum of 14 years in prison. 
  
 But Turner was expected to spend only three months of a six-month sentence in county jail after the judge, Aaron Persky, said positive character references and lack of a criminal record had persuaded him to be more lenient. Prison would have a “severe impact on him”, the judge said. 
  
 Stanford sexual assault case: victim impact statement in full Read more 
  
 The decision sparked anger on social media, with many quoting from the victim’s impact statement, which went viral after being published by international media. 
  
 Joe Brown (@joemfbrown) One of the most powerful things I’ve read in a long, long time. Brock Turner should be forced to read it every day. https://t.co/M3yjOloXqE 
  
 Leslie Grossman (@MissLeslieG) Brock Turner's victim has lit a fire. It is up to all of us to fan the flames. 
  
 The 23-year-old victim gave an emotional speech at the hearing, an abbreviated version of a 12-page impact statement submitted to Judge Persky before the sentencing hearing. 
  
 She recounted going to a party on the evening of 17 January 2015 and waking up the next morning in hospital with no memory of the night before. She also told of the invasive exam she underwent to collect evidence and the “excruciating” interrogation of the court trial. 
  
 “I thought there’s no way this is going to trial; there were witnesses, there was dirt in my body, he ran but was caught ... Instead, I was told he hired a powerful attorney, expert witnesses, private investigators ... That he was going to go to any length to convince the world he had simply been confused. ... 
  
 “I was pummeled with narrowed, pointed questions that dissected my personal life, love life, past life, family life, inane questions, accumulating trivial details to try and find an excuse for this guy who had me half naked before even bothering to ask for my name.” 
  
 Her victim impact statement – released by the district attorney’s office and published in full by Palo Alto Online, among others – has received global attention for shedding light on what advocates say is an epidemic of violence on college campuses. On BuzzFeed, it has been viewed more than 4m times since being published on Saturday. 
  
  
  
 Turner’s father had called on the judge to grant his son probation, saying that he had already paid “a steep price ... for 20 minutes of action”. 
  
  
  
 Michele Dauber, a professor of law at Stanford University, tweeted an excerpt from the probation pre-sentencing report in which Dan Turner said his son’s life had “been deeply altered forever”. 
  
 “He will never be his happy go lucky self with that easy going personality and welcoming smile,” he wrote of his son. “His every waking minute is consumed with worry, anxiety, fear, and depression. You can see this in his face, the way he walks, his weakened voice, his lack of appetite.” 
  
 His statement was met with fury on social media, with many condemning its tone. 
  
 Lauren Duca (@laurenduca) RAPE CULTURE: Brock Turner's dad is sad he only got "20 minutes of action" & doesn't even like eating steaks anymore pic.twitter.com/eQswM8Lb11 
  
 John Hodgman (@hodgman) It's the utter lack of self awareness and context that makes Brock Turner's dad's statement so chilling. Purest dumb dad privilege 
  
 Nick Davis (@NicksFlickPicks) I understand that this father's pain must be excruciating and I sympathize. But this statement is itself an outrage. https://t.co/KR8Mq9jsHE 
  
 Responding to questions over the statement’s validity, Dauber said it was “all too real” and that Dan Turner had read it aloud in open court at sentencing. She has been contacted for comment. 
  
  
  
 Dan Turner said imprisonment was not the “appropriate punishment” for his son, who was “totally committed to educating other college age students about the dangers of alcohol consumption and sexual promiscuity”. 
  
  
  
 “By having people like Brock educate others on college campuses is how society can begin to break the cycle of binge drinking and its unfortunate results.” 
  
 This echoed Turner’s own statement, in which he said he was in the process of establishing a program for high school and college students so that he could “speak out against the college campus drinking culture and the sexual promiscuity that goes along with that”. 
  
 The victim was scathing on this point in her address at Thursday’s hearing, noting that Turner had said he wanted to “show people that one night of drinking can ruin a life”. 
  
 “Let me rephrase for you, I want to show people that one night of drinking can ruin two lives. You and me. You are the cause, I am the effect. ... 
  
 “Your damage was concrete; stripped of titles, degrees, enrolment. My damage was internal, unseen, I carry it with me. You took away my worth, my privacy, my energy, my time, my safety, my intimacy, my confidence, my own voice, until today.” 
  
 Victoria Aveyard (@VictoriaAveyard) Students, if your school is ever stupid enough to allow Brock Turner to "educate" you on drinking, I hope you boo him off the stage. 
  
 Prosecutors had asked for Judge Persky, a Stanford alumnus, to sentence Turner to six years in a state prison. The maximum for the three felony charges – assault with intent to commit rape of an intoxicated woman, sexually penetrating an intoxicated person with a foreign object, and sexually penetrating an unconscious person with a foreign object – was 14 years. 
  
 In justifying the six-month sentence, Judge Persky said positive character references written on Turner’s behalf, such as that given by his father, had factored into his decision. His age, his lack of a criminal history, and the role that alcohol played in the assault were also mitigating factors. 
  
 “A prison sentence would have a severe impact on him,” said the judge. “I think he will not be a danger to others.” 
  
 Judge Persky is running unopposed for re-election in the Santa Clara county election on Tuesday. A Change.org petition calling for him to be recalled from his judicial position had received more than 15,500 signatures at time of writing. 
  
  
  
 siobhan vivian (@siobhanvivian) Outraged by the laughable punishment in the Stanford rape case? JUDGE AARON PERSKY is up for reelection. RT his name! Get him off the bench! 
  
 Colin Dickey (@colindickey) Just texted my mom, who's a lawyer in Santa Clara County, to try to get her to run against the judge who sentenced Brock Turner. 
  
 The Santa Clara county district attorney, Jeff Rosen, criticised the “unjust” sentence on Thursday, which he said did not fit the crime. 
  
  
  
 “Ultimately, the fact that the defendant preyed upon an intoxicated stranger on a college campus should not be viewed as less serious than if he assaulted an intoxicated stranger in downtown Palo Alto,” he said. 
  
 “Campus rape is no different than off-campus rape. Rape is rape. We will prosecute it the same.” 
  
 Rosen also praised the victim’s statement as “the most eloquent, powerful and compelling piece of victim advocacy that I’ve seen in my 20 years as a prosecutor”. 
  
 Palo Alto Online reported that Turner plans to appeal his conviction and will be represented by Dennis Riordan, a well-known San Francisco appellate attorney. ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. ||||| The father of former Stanford University swimmer Brock Turner, who was convicted of sexually assaulting an unconscious woman near a dumpster, urged the judge not to put his son in prison over "20 minutes of action." 
  
 Dan A. Turner, Brock Turner's dad, wrote a letter to Judge Aaron Persky before his son's sentencing Thursday. He said that since his son was found guilty of sexual assault, he isn't eating much and is full of worry and anxiety. It's "a steep price to pay for 20 minutes of action out of his 20 plus years of life," he argued. 
  
 You can read Dan Turner's full letter here. 
  
 Brock Turner, 22, was sentenced Thursday to six months in county jail, and could be released sooner for good behavior. In March, Turner was found guilty of three felony sexual assault charges for violating a recent Stanford graduate outside a fraternity party. 
  
 Two male graduate students who were passing by the party around 1 a.m. on Jan. 18, 2015, interrupted Turner when they saw him on top of a woman. The grad students chased Turner -- who left his victim behind in the dirt -- and then held him down as a third person called police. 
  
 Turner admitted to having sexual contact, but insisted during the criminal trial that the woman had given consent and that he was too drunk himself to realize she passed out, according to the Palo Alto Weekly. The woman testified she had no memory of her assault. A Stanford public safety officer said in court that after he found her lying unconscious behind a dumpster, she did not wake up for several hours. 
  
 A jury found Turner guilty of assault with intent to commit rape of an intoxicated woman, sexually penetrating an intoxicated person with a foreign object and sexually penetrating an unconscious person with a foreign object. Prosecutors recommended six years in state prison, noting that he'd lied about his alcohol history, had been previously accused of aggression toward women and has refused to admit he committed assault. 
  
 At the sentencing, Turner's victim read a 13-page letter about how the assault affected her. The statement was widely shared online over the weekend, with many calling it "powerful." 
  
 Persky determined that six months in jail followed by three years of probation was the best punishment for Turner, stating that he had to ask himself, "Is incarceration in prison the right answer for the poisoning of (the woman's) life?" Perksy also cited Turner's lack of a criminal record as a factor in a more lenient sentence. 
  
 Dan Turner noted in his letter that his son plans to develop a program for high school and college students to educate them about the "dangers of alcohol consumption and sexual promiscuity." 
  
 However, the tone of his letter -- which does not acknowledge that Brock committed an assault, instead describing the crime as "20 minutes of action" and insisting that Brock "has never been violent to anyone including the night of the Jan 17th 2015" -- offended many people. 
  
 Dan Turner offered a brief response to his critics Monday morning. 
  
 "My words have been misinterpreted by people," he said in a statement to The Huffington Post, submitted through his son's defense attorney. "What I meant with that comment is a 20 minute period of time. I was not referring to sexual activity by the word 'action.' It was an unfortunate choice of words and I did not mean to be disrespectful or offensive to anyone." 
  
 Still, many people are frustrated with the light sanction for Brock Turner's assault of an unconscious woman, a sanction that came despite several other letters to the court arguing for a more robust punishment. 
  
 Under California statutes, Turner should have faced a minimum of two to three years of incarceration for the crimes, noted Stanford University Law Professor Michele Dauber in a letter to the court. 
  
 A less severe punishment can be given if the case is "unusual" in that it is "substantially less serious than the circumstances typically present in other cases," and the offender is young and has no criminal record, Dauber wrote, but she insisted Turner's case was far from unusual: 
  
 Dauber went on to add that Turner was privileged, suggesting that he should be fully aware he was committing a crime which has no justification. 
  
 A letter signed by more than 250 Stanford students and a handful of alumni, parents and professors also pointed out Turner should have known he was committing a horrific crime due to the programming he received as a freshman that dealt with sexual assault, consent and alcohol usage. 
  
 A third letter, submitted by a dozen student leaders, including Greek life and student government members, echoed that point: 
  
 This is not a case of someone who just didn’t know what he was doing and made a mistake. ... His crime was serious, and his sentence should also be serious. As people who have suffered fear as a result of his crime, we ask that you consider the impact on our community of the sentence you impose in his case. 
  
 District Attorney Jeff Rosen was also displeased by the light sentence for Turner, saying in a statement that the "punishment does not fit the crime." 
  
 "The predatory offender has failed to take responsibility, failed to show remorse and failed to tell the truth," Rosen said. "The sentence does not factor in the true seriousness of this sexual assault, or the victim’s ongoing trauma. Campus rape is no different than off-campus rape. Rape is rape. And I will prosecute it as such." 
  
 Read the impact statement from Brock Turner's victim below: 
  
 _______ |||||