Early on the morning of Nov. 9, 2016, Republican President-elect Donald Trump addressed supporters in New York, declaring victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton. Here are key moments from that speech. (Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) 
  
 Donald J. Trump will be the 45th president of the United States. 
  
 Let that sink in for a minute. 
  
 Donald Trump, a man who has never run for any elected office before. 
  
 Donald Trump, who made his name nationally as a flamboyant billionaire turned reality TV star. 
  
 Donald Trump, who built a primary campaign on a pledge to build a wall along our southern border and make Mexico pay for it. 
  
 Donald Trump, who, in the wake of terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino in late 2015, proposed a temporary ban on Muslims entering the country. 
  
 Donald Trump, who faced allegations of sexual assault from a dozen different women in the closing weeks of this campaign. 
  
 Donald Trump, who said and did 1,000 things in this campaign that would have lost any other candidate the race. 
  
 Yes, that Donald Trump is going to be the most powerful person in the United States — and maybe the world — for the next four years. 
  
 What Donald Trump has done is nothing short of cataclysmic. He has fundamentally reshaped the political map. He has broken the Republican Party into pieces — and its shards still remain scattered everywhere. He has proven that the political polling and punditry industries need a deep re-examination. 
  
 But, even more than all that, Trump's victory reveals that many of the assumptions that people have long made about who we are as a country and what we want out of our politicians, our political system and each other are, frankly, wrong. 
  
 Trump's candidacy was premised on the idea that everyone — politicians, reporters, corporations — is lying to you, and lying to you to to feather their own nests. It was a Holden Caulfield campaign: Everyone, except Trump and his supporters, were phonies. 
  
 In short: Trump played on the deep alienation and anxiety coursing through the country. Globalism, immigration, a growing chasm between the haves and the have nots, a rejection of political correctness in all its forms. A prevailing sense that things were so screwed up that radical change — and make no mistake that is what Trump cast himself as in this contest — was the only option left. 
  
 Consider this: Just 38 percent of voters in the national exit poll said that Trump was qualified to be president. (52 percent said the same of Clinton.) And yet, he won the White House on Tuesday night. 
  
 That disconnect can only be explained by a desire to blow up the whole system. And I don't just mean the political system. I mean every elite and establishment institution that's ever assumed they know best — the media very much included. Trump is the collective middle finger from all the people who think the elites have laughed them off and dismissed them for too long. It is the average man's revenge — made all the more remarkable by the fact that the vessel of this rage against elites and the establishment is a billionaire who tells anyone who asks how smart and rich he is. 
  
 How Trump happened then, while remarkable, can be understood and analyzed. What Trump will do as president is a far more difficult question to answer. 
  
  
  
 Donald Trump (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) 
  
 Trump's policy positions were loosely defined, at best. His lone consistent position throughout his life is on trade, where he has long favored a more protectionist view, suspicious of broad trade deals like NAFTA or the Trans-Pacific Partnership. His immigration stance — build a wall and make Mexico pay for it — seems far-fetched. His plans on taxes, on education, on energy are all sketches of ideas as opposed to specific policy proposals. 
  
 How does Trump relate to the GOP congressional majorities he is going to enjoy? He ran against the Republican establishment — in the primary and general election campaigns. He vilified them as tone-deaf to the changes happening not only within their party but also in the country. What now? Trump sits in the catbird's seat. Republican leaders need to come to him — but is he willing to accept them into the new Republican Party he has forged? 
  
 And what of the Democratic Party? Hillary Clinton began the 2016 campaign as the strongest non-incumbent front-runner in the history of modern politics. Her presumed strength glossed over the fact that a) a significant amount of liberal unrest — represented in the primary by Bernie Sanders — remained toward her and b) the Democratic bench is remarkably thin. 
  
 What does it mean for world markets, that plunged as the likelihood of a Trump victory shaped up? Or the U.S. relationship with foreign countries? Or our involvement in foreign conflicts? 
  
 There are many questions that Trump's victory creates. And more I can't even think of. 
  
 Here's what I do know: Trump's victory is the single most stunning political development I have ever witnessed. And it's not close. This is the equivalent of dropping a refrigerator — or maybe 10 refrigerators — into a smallish pond. There are obvious, giant waves. But there are 1,000 other ripples that we might not even see today — or might not even exist today. 
  
 Cataclysm. Plain and simple. ||||| Anger trumped hope. 
  
 Donald Trump’s astonishing victory over a heavily favored Hillary Clinton on Tuesday is the greatest upset in the modern history of American elections – convulsing the nation’s political order in ways so profound and disruptive its impact can’t even be guessed at. 
  
 Story Continued Below 
  
 Trump was too crass, too much of a brazen sexist, too much a blustery orange-maned joke, too ill-informed about the operations of a country he wanted to run, too much of a threat to markets and the security establishment – too pessimistic -- to ever win the White House. Underestimated at every turn, spurned by his own party, the former reality-show star was able to defeat a better-funded better-organized Clinton by surfing a tsunami of working-class white rage that her army of numbers crunchers somehow missed. 
  
 Clinton had fully expected to make history when her motorcade sped from Chappaqua to Manhattan, had planned fireworks to celebrate her being elected the first female president in the 240-year history of the republic. Instead her legacy is one of tragedy, futility and squandered opportunities – proof that a conventional candidate can do practically everything by the numbers (win debates, raise the most cash, assemble the greatest data and voter outreach effort in history) and still fall to a movement impelled by raw emotion, not calculation. 
  
 When you wake up on Wednesday morning the United States will be a different place. 
  
 The markets will tank, but they will recover. World leaders will shudder, but they will adjust as they always do. Half of the country that viewed him as a dangerous demagogue, even a neo-fascist, before the election will wonder, probably for the first time in their lives, if their country is the same one they were born in. 
  
 His tens of millions of inspired supporters will awake to a hopeful new dawn, content in having finally torn the rotten establishment they had long loathed, and wondering how he plans to make their America great again. 
  
 And in about two months Donald John Trump – the man who has said he’s smarter than any of the men who will now be his generals – will be wrapping his fingers around the nation’s nuclear football. 
  
 As a French diplomat said Tuesday, reflecting on Trump, the stunning Brexit vote and the rise of right-wing parties in Western Europe: “This is a world we do not know anymore.” 
  
 Can he do anything to bring a divided, terrified country together? Will he try? There is real fear in many parts of the country tonight. Trump’s remarkable victory was gained by waging total war on his enemies, lukewarm allies, the “dishonest” media and the very idea that he had to be civil or respect the norms of American politics. 
  
 Trump himself had trouble believing he could actually pull the thing off (an aide told CNN early Tuesday that he would need a “miracle” to win). So his final rallies had a screw-it quality, returning to a provocative pattern of his underdog days – calling out the “rigged game” he seemed certain to lose and goading his supporters into a state of fury that made dissenters and reporters feel endangered. 
  
 There was a time, earlier in the campaign, when he refused to join his backers in chanting “Lock her up!” Toward the end, he was joining them in that chant. 
  
 Democratic consultant Stephanie Cutter, who worked on President Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, described how many Clinton supporters feel: “He’s about rejecting immigrants, he’s about keeping your foot down on people, women.” 
  
 Clinton, in her upbeat closing message had emphasized that she would be a president for all Americans, and would try to reach out to Trump’s voters; he never reciprocated and the demographic groups that backed her overwhelmingly rejected him with fewer than 7 percent of blacks backing his candidacy, under 25 percent of Latinos earning his vote and a gender gap that led women to support Clinton in 10 to 20 percent greater numbers. 
  
 The question now is whether he will do anything meaningful to reach out to them – to assure Democrats, women, blacks and Hispanics that he views them as co-equal members of the American family. And will they believe him? 
  
 Hillary Clinton is a footnote in history. As Tuesday night dragged into Wednesday morning, as the thousands of would-be revelers turned into marble-eyed mourners, some of the younger women in the crowd looked up at the roof of the joyless Javits Center, its glass ceiling very much intact. 
  
 The shocking result ended a lot of dreams, and one of the most extraordinary and extraordinarily polarizing careers in American politics. 
  
 At 69 – having suffered the most humbling upset imaginable to a deeply, nearly fatally flawed opponent believed to be the only Republican contender she could actually defeat – is spent as a political force. Clinton will forever be known as one of the worst closers in political history, a woman who was never capable of selling a wary public on herself, on account of her own shortcomings and paranoia or perhaps as a result of a sexism so ingrained in American culture that women as well as men suffered from it. 
  
 The good news for Democrats: Clinton is now out of the way, clearing the road for a new generation of leadership with far less baggage. Despite her loss, the Democratic Party’s ideas remain more popular than the Republican platform on global warming, social issues, infrastructure spending, taxes and even immigration, Trump’s signature issue. 
  
 The bad news: What would have happened if the party had nominated Bernie Sanders – the 74-year-old socialist who Clinton dismissed as unelectable? 
  
 White voters finally found someone who spoke their language. The most telling comment of the entire election came when a pollster buttonholed an early Trump supporter, and asked her how she could possibly believe in a novice rabble-rouser with no distinct plans other than a slogan on a red hat. “We know his goal is to make America great again,” she said. “It’s on his hat.” 
  
 That wasn’t a small thing. Clinton had the whiff of Ivy League arrogance and spoke with the technocratic complexity of the Federal Register, coming across as a liberal given to lecturing Americans not inspiring them. For all his flaws, Trump speaks with gut-punch directness and an earthy, sledgehammer humor that succinctly channeled their anger. 
  
 Trump made his fame as a reality TV star but, in reality, he speaks the language of right-wing talk radio, which reflects the raw rage of working-class whites (who still make up about a third of the country’s population) who feel squeezed by globalization, left out of the Starbucks-and-Snapchat prosperity of the coastal elites and really, truly need to have America be great again. It’s noteworthy that Clinton and her staff circulated academic studies documenting the life-span decline of poorer whites – and Clinton’s communications director Jennifer Palmieri, pointing to a map of the country in her office, ran a sympathetic finger over Appalachia and promised that Clinton would work hard on behalf of them after the election. 
  
 But Clinton, opting for the Obama strategy of focusing on maximizing turnout among her core constituencies, never made a serious pitch to working-class white men (who backed Trump by a record 48 percent margin) and she paid a terrible, terrible price. 
  
 The Clinton campaign got its numbers wrong. Forget the public polling of the election – which was all over the map, but backed an aggregated surmise that Clinton had a 70 to 85 percent chance of winning the presidency on the eve of the election. 
  
 When I emailed a senior Clinton strategist for their internal polling data on Tuesday morning, I was told her lead was in the 4-to-5 percent range and that the campaign was feeling “very good” about its prospects. There were, I was told, internal tensions within the campaign over the dissemination of polling data and voter-file analytics, but there appears to have been some major miscalculation that blinded her team to the massive turnout of white voters in exurbs and rural areas in the Midwest and Florida. 
  
 Clinton’s vaunted ground game was supposed to give her a one-to-two point advantage, and while it helped boost turnout in Hispanic areas (and brought some underperforming African American neighborhoods up to a respectable level), Brooklyn failed to account for the wave of Trump-stoked anger that rendered its painstakingly created model of the electorate so off-base. 
  
 James Comey is Public Enemy No. 1 (To Democrats). The evidence is mixed, but Clinton staffers and many Democrats blame the FBI director’s unprecedented announcement, 11 days before the election, for throwing the race to a man they deem unfit to serve in the nation’s highest office. Clinton’s internal numbers tanked in the days after the director announced he would examine thousands of new emails found on the laptop of Anthony Weiner, the husband of Clinton’s aide-de-camp Huma Abedin. “He f---d us, and he f----ed the country,” a senior Clinton campaign official told me late Tuesday. 
  
 The incident – to Trump’s delight – rekindled doubts about Clinton's character and trustworthiness. And even Comey's announcement, on the Sunday before Election Day, that the emails were deemed innocuous, couldn’t save her. ||||| Americans have no choice but to hope for the best from the president-elect—and to prepare for the worst by reviving the constitutional system’s checks and balances. 
  
 When Donald Trump takes office on January 20, 2017, he will arguably present more unknowns than anyone who has ever been elected to lead the executive branch and serve as commander in chief of the United States military. He has no previous experience in government. His relationship to the Republican Party is complicated, his stated positions on any number of policy issues are extremely vague, and he has shown over the course of this election that he is unconstrained by many norms that every major-party nominee in my lifetime have accepted as a matter of course. His most fervent supporters believe this makes him uniquely positioned to “Make America Great Again,” a message emblazoned on the red hats of his supporters early Wednesday as Trump took the stage to deliver his victory speech. “I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be president for all Americans,” he said, adding that he would reach out to Americans who opposed him for their advice and help. The speech was pitch-perfect––easily the classiest moment of his campaign. 
  
 Hopefully, Trump will surprise his detractors and behave better in the White House than he has in the 2016 campaign, his business career, and his personal life. For the sake of the nation and the world, I hope he rises to the occasion, and that he respects the civil liberties of every American regardless of their identity. In any project that benefits the nation while safeguarding civil rights and liberal norms, I wish him success. And for my part, as a frequent critic of the president elect, any new criticism of Trump will spring from what he does going forward, not backward-looking resentment at a campaign I hated. I want Trump to have every incentive to serve honorably. Still, I worry that the worst sides of Trump will resurface. For critics, the risk he represents to the United States was summed up months ago by Josh Barro, who described Trump as a tail-risk candidate. "The most likely outcome is that Trump would be neither good nor disastrous as president, but simply bad," Barro wrote. "For example, he might mismanage the country's finances, needlessly inflame racial tensions, undermine the rule of law, confuse and antagonize our allies, and hurt the economy through erratic policies that punish and reward investors based on his political whims. This is the most likely outcome, and an undesirable one, but not the most important one to consider. America has survived bad presidents before, and we could survive a bad Trump presidency along these lines." 
  
 Though unlikely, tail-risk scenarios scared him more. What if President Trump starts behaving like one of the several authoritarian leaders who he has repeatedly praised, or starts using federal law enforcement to target Hispanics, Muslims, or any other group he dislikes, or even starts a nuclear war? The Constitution is meant to provide protections even if a man unfit for the presidency wins it. Congress and the Supreme Court are co-equal branches, even if they're not always treated that way by the Washington establishment and the media. The American system vests significant power in the states and the people, though less today than at the time of the Founders, for better in some ways and worse in others. And the character of the employees who staff the bureaucracy matters, too. Would the American republic stand up to a stress test? For years, I have been urging President Obama and Congress to tyrant-proof the executive branch as best they can, before it’s too late. With an unknown quantity headed for the Oval Office, that project is more vital than ever. Current precedents give Trump the ability to wage war under an Authorization to Use Military Force that’s been stretched to cover half the globe; to order drone killings in a dozen countries; to preside over mass surveillance on American citizens; to indefinitely detain human beings without trail at Guantanamo Bay; and much more. ||||| Donald Trump's unpredicted and unprecedented victory over Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election has launched the nation’s capital into a zone of uncertainty. WSJ's Gerald F. Seib discusses the political shakeup and what needs to happen next. Photo: AP 
  
 The deplorables rose up and shook the world. 
  
 “Deplorables” was, of course, the disparaging term Hillary Clinton at one point applied to some supporters of Donald Trump. Many of his loyal followers proudly embraced the insult and used it as a motivating tool. 
  
 Wearing such establishment disdain as a badge of honor, the Trump army cut a... |||||