Published on Jan 29, 2014 
  
 Buzzfeed Australia sent us some snacks! Obviously, we had to try them on camera. 
  
  
  
 Post to Facebook: http://on.fb.me/MhYGWt 
  
 Like BuzzFeedVideo on Facebook: http://on.fb.me/1ilcE7k 
  
 Post to Twitter: http://bit.ly/MhYFSr 
  
  
  
 "Silent Bach" 
  
 Music Licensed via Warner / Chappell Music, Inc 
  
  
  
 LINKS! 
  
 www.buzzfeed.com 
  
 www.buzzfeed.com/video 
  
 www.youtube.com/buzzfeed 
  
 www.youtube.com/buzzfeedvideo 
  
 www.youtube.com/buzzfeedyellow 
  
 www.youtube.com/buzzfeedpop 
  
 www.youtube.com/cnnbuzzfeed 
  
  
  
 BUZZFEED VIDEO 
  
 BuzzFeed is the world's first true social news organization. Featuring tasty, short, fun, inspiring, funny, edgy, interesting videos from theBuzzFeed. /BuzzFeedVideo is BuzzFeed's original YouTube Channel, with a focus on producing great short-form BuzzFeed videos for YouTube (and the world!). BuzzFeed Video will entertain, educate, spark conversation, inspire and delight. Subscribe to BuzzFeedVideo today and check us out at http://buzzfeed.com ||||| Published on Feb 7, 2013 
  
 Men At Work's official music video for 'Down Under'. Click to listen to Men At Work on Spotify: http://smarturl.it/MenAtWorkSpotify?I... 
  
  
  
 As featured on Contraband: The Best of Men At Work. Click to buy the track or album via iTunes: http://smarturl.it/MAWContraband?IQid... 
  
 Google Play: http://smarturl.it/MAWDUGPlay?IQid=Me... 
  
 Amazon: http://smarturl.it/MAWContrabandAmazo... 
  
  
  
 More From Men At Work 
  
 Who Can It Be Now: https://youtu.be/SECVGN4Bsgg 
  
 Overkill: https://youtu.be/RY7S6EgSlCI 
  
 It's A Mistake: https://youtu.be/I0AxrOUJ62E 
  
  
  
 More great 80s videos here: http://smarturl.it/Ultimate80?IQid=Me... 
  
  
  
 Subscribe to Men At Work on YouTube: http://smarturl.it/MenAtWorkSub?IQid=... 
  
  
  
 --------- 
  
  
  
 Lyrics: 
  
  
  
 Travelling in a fried-out Kombi 
  
 On a hippie trail, head full of zombie 
  
 I met a strange lady, she made me nervous 
  
 She took me in and gave me breakfast 
  
 And she said: 
  
  
  
 Do you come from a land down under 
  
 Where women glow and men plunder 
  
 Can't you hear, can't you hear the thunder 
  
 You better run, you better take cover." |||||  
  
 A jar of the Australian spread Vegemite in New York in 2006. (Brendan McDermid/Reuters) 
  
 Start typing the sentence “Vegemite tastes like …” into Google and the search engine quickly gives you three suggestions for completing your thought. 
  
 The first option is “soy sauce,” an apt description of the salty brown sludge so popular in Australia. 
  
 The second is “beer,” which also makes sense considering Vegemite is made from leftover brewers’ yeast extract. 
  
 The third suggestion, however, is less than obvious. 
  
 According to Google, at least, Vegemite tastes like sadness. 
  
 Why a breakfast spread would be associated with sadness is a peculiarly Australian tale of poverty and addiction. And the answer lies somewhere in the overlap between the search engine’s three suggestions. 
  
 Vegemite is a cousin, so to speak, of Marmite, the yeast-based spread invented at the beginning of the 20th century in England. The British B-vitamin spread was wildly popular Down Under until its supply was interrupted by World War I. Conflict offered local food manufacturer the Fred Walker Co. — which would later become Kraft — a window of opportunity. The company hired a young chemist named Cyril P. Callister to develop Australia’s own version of Marmite, according to the Vegemite Web site. 
  
 For nearly a century, Vegemite has been a barometer of Australia’s culture and economy. From the contest to come up with its name to its iconic advertisements, memorable radio limericks and nostalgia-inducing “Happy Little Vegemites” commercials, the product charts changes in Australian society over the 20th century. 
  
 In 1981, the Australian rock band Men at Work memorialized the spread in their song “Down Under,” which contains a line about a Vegemite sandwich. 
  
 “Vegemite started as a wartime substitute for Marmite, but it’s now as symbolic of Australia as Sydney Harbour Bridge and the koala,” the BBC reported in 2012. 
  
 To outsiders, however, the malty toast-topper tastes terrible. 
  
 In 2011, President Obama risked angering Australians by saying that he found Vegemite to be “horrible.” 
  
  
  
 Jars of Vegemite are seen on the production line during the brand’s 90th year, at the Vegemite factory in October 2013 in Melbourne, Australia. (Graham Denholm/Getty Images) 
  
 But during the past week, the beloved breakfast spread has been pulled into a much more serious and particularly Australian debate over alcoholism and the rights of the indigenous. 
  
 On Sunday, Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion warned that Vegemite was being used to make bootleg booze in indigenous communities where there is a ban on selling alcohol. 
  
 Calling the condiment “a precursor to misery,” Scullion told Brisbane’s Courier-Mail that some indigenous Australians were using Vegemite to brew bathtubs full of moonshine. 
  
 “Adults and even young children are getting drunk on the home brew, which at times is mixed with orange juice,” the newspaper reported. “Senator Scullion said children in some communities were too hung-over from all-night benders to go to school.” 
  
 In some instances, people had bought as many as 20 jars of Vegemite for the purpose of home brewing, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. 
  
 Australia’s indigenous population suffers from a significantly higher rate of alcohol abuse, according to the country’s Bureau of Statistics and Institute of Criminology, and indigenous Australians are up to eight times more likely to die due to alcohol than their peers, according to recent research. 
  
  
  
 Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Russian President Vladimir Putin meet Jimbelung the koala before the start of the first Group of 20 meeting on Nov. 15, 2014, in Brisbane, Australia. (Andrew Taylor/G20 Australia via Getty Images) 
  
 In the interview, Scullion mentioned the possibility of a legislative ban on Vegemite in certain communities but said the government preferred for local leaders and businesses to crack down on the problem instead. 
  
 Scullion added that he was tired of hearing about “people’s rights” rather than dealing with problems related to alcohol abuse, such as domestic violence and child neglect. 
  
 “Wouldn’t it be ­terrible to ban Vegemite?” he told the Courier-Mail. “Well it’s a precursor to misery in (some) communities.” 
  
 The newspaper also quoted police union president Ian Leavers on the problem of Vegemite moonshine. 
  
 “Where there is a will, there is always a way and in indigenous communities I have seen alcohol brewed from many things such as Vegemite,’’ he said. “While we cannot just go out and ban everything that could possibly be used to make illegal alcohol, at the same time common sense needs to take place and if people are purchasing large quantities of an item that could be used for brewing illegal ­alcohol, questions should always be asked.” 
  
 The mere suggestion of banning Vegemite caused a stir in Australia. 
  
 On Sunday, shortly after Scullion’s comments were published, his boss, Prime Minister Tony Abbott came out to reassure Aussies that nobody was going to pry the Vegemite from their hands. 
  
 “The last thing I want to see is a Vegemite watch going on,” Abbott said, “because Vegemite, quite properly, is for most people a reasonably nutritious spread on your morning toast or on your sandwiches.” 
  
 To some of Abbott’s critics, however, the breakfast spread skirmish is just another example of the prime minister’s harsh policies toward the indigenous. 
  
 Although Abbott has so far made good on a campaign promise to spend a week of each year living among Aborigines — conducting meetings from a tent in Australia’s vast Northern Territory last September — he has also drawn criticism for pulling funding from aboriginal communities and calling their culture mere “lifestyle choices.” 
  
 Great to be in Arnhem Land – looking forward to the days ahead. pic.twitter.com/IozhB0zSTk — Tony Abbott (@TonyAbbottMHR) September 14, 2014 
  
 “What we can’t do is endlessly subsidize lifestyle choices if those lifestyle choices are not conducive to the kind of full participation in Australian society that everyone should have,” Abbott said in March, according to the Guardian. “If people choose to live miles away from where there’s a school, if people choose not to access the school of the air, if people choose to live where there’s no jobs, obviously it’s very, very difficult to close the gap.” 
  
 “Fine, by all means live in a remote location, but there’s a limit to what you can expect the state to do for you if you want to live there,” added the prime minister, a feisty politician who once ate a raw onion whole on live television and earned the nickname “the bomb-thrower.” 
  
 Opposition politicians called Abbott’s decision and comments “deeply disturbing and highly offensive.” 
  
 Some anti-alcoholism advocates, meanwhile, say that Scullion’s comments exaggerate the problem. 
  
 “We’re talking about an isolated problem in a couple of communities around a very large nation, and a nation where there is a very large number of Aboriginal communities, and every community is different,” John Boffa of the Northern Territory-based People’s Alcohol Action Coalition told the BBC. 
  
 For now, at least, all of Australia can enjoy Vegemite: the beloved breakfast spread with an aftertaste of sadness. ||||| Sale of Vegemite could be restricted in dry communities, following reports of the spread being used to make homemade alcohol. Photo: Eddie Jim 
  
 The government's idea to reduce the availability of Vegemite from remote communities has been labelled as "bizarre" by the West Australian shadow minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
  
 The yeast spread has been reportedly identified as a key ingredient in homemade alcohol in dry remote communities. 
  
 Federal Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion said that local communities needed to take a greater responsibility in restricting excessive sales of the product after he was earlier reported describing Vegemite as a "precursor to misery". 
  
  
  
 While the true extent of the Vegemite issue in remote communities is not known, it is believed that in 2010 a man died in Queensland after drinking a Vegemite-based alcoholic brew. 
  
 Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen 
  
 WA shadow minister for Aboriginal Affairs Ben Wyatt, said aside from very isolated cases, Vegemite should not be perceived as a threat to remote communities. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 He questioned the logic of the federal government's approach towards Vegemite. 
  
 "It is bizarre," he said. 
  
 WA Labor spokesman for Aboriginal Affairs, Ben Wyatt. 
  
 "Scullion takes tens of millions of dollars out of remote aboriginal communities and then has this absurd reaction in respect to Vegemite. 
  
 "Are potatoes going to be banned? 
  
 "It seems to be that they have an approach that is built around bizarre reactions to individual issues rather than a comprehensive strategy underwritten by federal government responsibility and support." 
  
 One remote WA general shopkeeper, who did not want to be named, said she didn't understand why the federal government was suggesting that Vegemite should be restricted or removed from shops in communities. 
  
 "I prefer Promite," she said. 
  
 "We do have some jars of Vegemite here but they've gone out of date. 
  
 "What does that tell you?" 
  
 The owners of Vegemite, Mondelez, a US-based multinational food company, declined to comment. ||||| Story highlights Vegemite reportedly being used to make moonshine in remote, alcohol-restricted Aboriginal communities 
  
 Australian Indigenous Affairs Minister calls for local restrictions on Vegemite sales, calling it a "precursor to misery" 
  
 (CNN) Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has warned against restricting the sale of popular toast spread Vegemite in remote indigenous communities after reports it was being used to make moonshine. 
  
 Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion first suggested local communities should regulate Vegemite purchases after reports from Aboriginal health organizations that the yeast-based spread was being bought in bulk to make homemade alcohol in some remote indigenous communities in the northeastern state of Queensland, where alcohol is banned. 
  
 Scullion described the spread as a "precursor to misery" in local newspaper the Courier Mail on Saturday, saying children in some communities were too unwell from excess consumption of the Vegemite-based home-brew to attend school. 
  
 "Businesses in these communities also have a responsibility to report any purchase that may raise their own suspicions," he later added. 
  
 But Abbott told reporters at a press conference in Queensland on Sunday that he had no plans to institute a "Vegemite watch". 
  
 Read More ||||| Vegemite could be ending up in more than sandwiches, following reports of the yeast extract being used to make homemade alcohol in dry communities across Queensland and the Northern Territory. 
  
 The problem has been described as prolific in some areas in the Northern Territory, with reported instances of people buying up to twenty jars of Australia's favourite spread at a time, for the brewing of homemade alcohol. 
  
 SHARE 
  
 Share on Facebook SHARE 
  
 Share on Twitter TWEET 
  
 Link Bega may be tempted to part-fund its Vegemite buy via a share issue. Photo: Eddie Jim 
  
 Indigenous Affairs Minister Nigel Scullion said the goal was for local communities to take a greater responsibility in restricting excessive sales of high-yeast products, rather than impose a legislative ban on the food products. 
  
 "The government is not seeking to place any restrictions on Vegemite or any other yeast product that may be used in home brew in remote communities," he said. 
  
 SHARE 
  
 Share on Facebook SHARE 
  
 Share on Twitter TWEET 
  
 Link Nigel Scullion said the focus was on restricting the sale of such products, and not banning it altogether. Photo: Alex Ellinghausen 
  
 "Our priority has always been to get kids to school, make communities safer and get people into jobs. Businesses in these communities also have a responsibility to report any purchase that may raise their own suspicions." 
  
 There are 19 communities across Queensland where alcohol is limited or banned. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 In 2013 the Queensland government said it was considering removing alcohol bans in certain communities, due to a growing increase in the production of homemade alcohol. 
  
 At the time there were also reports of other food and drinks, like Ribena juice, being used to produce alcohol. 
  
 "They're using a whole range of products and items that can be used to essentially ferment and turn into alcohol," said Selwyn Button, from the Queensland Aboriginal and Islander Health Council to the ABC in November 2013. 
  
 "It's anything that they can get their hands on that has the ability to ferment," he said, adding that the ingredients used in homemade alcohol are heavy in sugar and carbohydrates, common risk factors for health conditions like type 2 diabetes. 
  
 According to the Vegemite website, the spread was first produced in 1922 when the Fred Walker Company, which would later become Kraft Food Company, "hired a young chemist to develop a spread from one of the richest known natural sources in the Vitamin B group – brewer's yeast." 
  
 Brewer's yeast is a key ingredient used in the production of beer and ale. 
  
 The Queensland Aboriginal and Islander Health Council has been contacted for comment. |||||