Media caption The talks are taking place ahead of South Korea's annual military exercises with the US, as Lucy Williamson reports 
  
 North and South Korea have held their highest level talks in years, exploring ways to improve their tense relations. 
  
 Two rounds of meetings - requested by Pyongyang - took place at the border village of Panmunjom. More may follow. 
  
 There has been no word on how the talks went. Family reunions planned for this month were expected to be discussed, but the agenda was left open. 
  
 Pyongyang has threatened to cancel the reunions because of annual South Korea-US military exercises due in February. 
  
 China, Pyongyang's main ally, welcomed the talks, the highest-level meeting with the North and South have held since 2007. 
  
 The BBC's Lucy Williamson, who was at the border area, says the delegations appeared to greet each other cordially. 
  
 The two sides met for 90 minutes in the morning at South Korea's side of Panmunjom and then reconvened for three hours in the afternoon, after which the two chief delegates held one-to-one discussions. 
  
 Analysis South Korean officials say they were pleasantly surprised when North Korea's invitation arrived. It is the first time in more than six years, they say, that a meeting at this level has taken place. A similar attempt last year fell victim to a spat over protocol, but this time both sides appear more willing to talk. The meeting comes after weeks of pointed diplomatic overtures by Pyongyang that have raised hopes in some quarters that the mood on the peninsula is changing. But others point out that previous North Korean charm offensives have been followed by renewed confrontation, and that Pyongyang's new cordiality has come with a warning: that the joint military exercises scheduled to take place this month between the US and South Korea are incompatible with friendlier inter-Korean ties. 
  
 'Open mind' 
  
 South Korea's Deputy National Security Adviser Kim Kyou-hyun is leading Seoul's delegation at the Panmunjom talks. 
  
 Ahead of the meeting, Mr Kim said: "This is an opportunity to open a new era of the Korean peninsula. 
  
 "I would like to attend the meeting with 'open attitude and mind' to study the opportunity. 
  
 "We will make an effort to proceed with the separated families reunion event as agreed," he added. 
  
 North Korea's delegation is being headed by Won Tong-yon, a senior official specialising in inter-Korean ties, South Korean officials said. 
  
 In a news conference in Geneva on Tuesday, North Korea's ambassador to the UN, So Se-pyong, spoke of the need to terminate all hostile military actions, which he described as the main obstacles to peace. 
  
 He called for the US and South Korea to suspend their planned military exercises, describing them as "of a sinister and dangerous nature". 
  
 The two Koreas are due to hold reunions of families, divided by the partitioning of the Korean Peninsula at the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, for five days from 20 February. 
  
 The last such reunions took place in 2010. But these reunions coincide with the start of the US-South Korea joint military drills - annual exercises that anger North Korea. 
  
 The drills last year led to a prolonged rise in tensions, as North Korea threatened pre-emptive nuclear strikes and withdrew its workers from a joint industrial zone. 
  
 Many in South Korea see Pyongyang's reaction as a test of its new approach, the BBC's Lucy Williamson in Seoul reports. 
  
 Last week Pyongyang threatened to cancel the family reunions, warning that "dialogue and exercises of war" could not go hand-in-hand. 
  
 More than the talks, the exercises are for many people the real test of whether Pyongyang's charm offensive is a sign of change, or simply a prelude to more confrontation, our correspondent says. ||||| SEOUL, South Korea — North and South Korea on Wednesday started their highest-level government dialogue since the North’s nuclear test last year prompted fears of armed conflict on the divided Korean Peninsula. 
  
 The meeting at the truce village of Panmunjom on the border between the two Koreas was first suggested by the North, which has recently called repeatedly for better ties. The United States, whose secretary of state, John Kerry, travels to Seoul on Thursday, remains deeply skeptical, as does Seoul, about the motives of the North Korean government. 
  
 American and South Korean officials have accused North Korea of using a charm offensive to draw its adversaries into dialogue and win concessions while distracting attention from its ever-expanding nuclear and long-range missile programs. 
  
 Still, the meeting at Panmunjom gives senior South Korean officials a rare opportunity to gauge whether the North’s policies are shifting under its new leader, Kim Jong-un. Relations between the two countries reached a low point in 2010 when a South Korean Navy patrol ship sank, killing 46 sailors, in an explosion that the South blamed on a North Korean torpedo attack. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 The ties remained strained later that year, as the South curtailed trade and humanitarian aid to the North and the North attacked a South Korean island with artillery. The North further rattled the region by launching a long-range rocket in December 2012 and conducting its third nuclear test last February. When the United Nations Security Council tightened sanctions, the country lashed out with threats of nuclear war. ||||| SEOUL (Reuters) - North and South Korea held their first high-level talks in seven years on their fortified border on Wednesday, exploring ways to improve ties while the South and the United States geared up for military exercises that have angered the North. 
  
 The meeting was set up with unusual speed and great secrecy at the North's suggestion last week, the latest example of conflicting signals coming from North Korea that included an abrupt cancellation of an invitation for a U.S. envoy to visit. 
  
 The two sides met at the Panmunjom truce village on the border with no pre-arranged agenda and discussed a range of issues including reunions of families separated during their 1950-53 Korean War, a South Korean official said. 
  
 The North has demanded that the South and the United States scrap the military exercises, due to start later this month, but both sides have plenty of incentives to seek a deal that could break their long stalemate. 
  
 "For the North, if it comes back with an accomplishment in terms of improved South-North ties, it will mean a better atmosphere for Kim Jong Un to visit China and a justification to pursue high-level talks with the United States," said Cheong Seong-chang, an expert at the Sejong Institute outside Seoul. 
  
 North Korean leader Kim is believed to be seeking a visit to China, the North's greatest ally and main benefactor, to reinforce his legitimacy as leader. In his early 30s, Kim took power when his father died suddenly in 2011. 
  
 The South Korean delegation was led by President Park Geun-hye's deputy national security adviser. North Korea has sent the second-highest ranking official in the ruling Workers' Party department charged with ties with the South. 
  
 The meeting comes a week before the two sides are scheduled to hold reunions of family members separated since the Korean War at the Mount Kumgang resort just inside the North, which is considered a major humanitarian event by the South. 
  
 However, the North has threatened to cancel the reunions, citing a sortie last week by a nuclear-capable U.S. B-52 bomber near the Korean peninsula. 
  
 The North has also called the annual military exercises between South Korean and U.S. forces a rehearsal for war despite repeated assertions by Seoul and Washington that the drills are routine and defensive. The United States has about 28,500 troops stationed in South Korea. 
  
 North Korea has cancelled an invitation for U.S. human rights envoy Robert King to visit Pyongyang to discuss the release of imprisoned U.S. missionary Kenneth Bae, which had been expected to come as early as this week. 
  
 South Korea halted all trade and most investment with the North in May 2010 after the sinking of one of its warships, which it blamed on Pyongyang. 
  
 A joint factory project in the North's border city of Kaesong, which generates about $90 million annually in wages for the impoverished state, is the last remaining symbol of economic cooperation between the two Koreas. 
  
 (Additional reporting by Ju-min Park; Editing by Robert Birsel) |||||