Image copyright jadid247 Image caption An onlooker filmed the elephant moments after it threw the stone 
  
 A seven-year-old girl has died after being hit by a stone thrown by an elephant from its enclosure at Rabat Zoo in Morocco. 
  
 The stone got past the elephant's fence and a ditch separating the animal and visitors, the zoo said in a statement. 
  
 The girl was taken to hospital and died within a few hours, the zoo added. 
  
 The zoo statement said the enclosure met international standards and said "this kind of accident is rare, unpredictable and unusual". 
  
 Africa Live: More on this and other stories 
  
 The statement went on (in French) to point out two other recent incidents in the US: 
  
 In June an alligator killed a two-year-old boy at Walt Disney World in Florida 
  
 In May, zookeepers killed a gorilla at Cincinnati Zoo after a three-year-old boy fell into its enclosure. 
  
 Phyllis Lee, Scientific Director of the Amboseli Trust for Elephants, says that targeted throwing of stones and branches by elephants is very unusual. 
  
 "It can happen when elephants are frustrated or bored. In my opinion, it's unlikely the elephant was directly targeting the girl - but exhibiting frustration. You can't predict what animals in captivity will do." 
  
 The moments after the girl was struck at Rabat Zoo on Tuesday were filmed by a bystander and uploaded onto YouTube. 
  
 The video shows the elephant waving its trunk behind a fence and swerves round to show a stone on the ground. 
  
 Metres away people are gathered around the girl, holding her head and stroking her leg. |||||  
  
 In this 2008 photo, an elephant at the Rabat Zoo in Morocco raises its trunk. On Tuesday, a 7-year-old girl died after being struck by a stone thrown by an elephant out of its enclosure. (Abdelhak Senna/AFP/Getty Images) 
  
 A 7-year-old girl died Tuesday from injuries she suffered when an elephant threw a stone out of its enclosure and struck her on the head at Rabat Zoo in Morocco. 
  
 Cellphone video taken moments after the incident shows the rock that allegedly hit the girl and a group of bystanders huddled near her, tending to her injuries while waiting for an ambulance. (The video, uploaded to YouTube, is graphic and should be viewed with caution.) 
  
 After being taken to the hospital, the unidentified girl died a few hours later, the zoo said. 
  
 An official statement released by Rabat Zoo denied responsibility for the young girl's death, according to Morocco World News, and said that the elephant enclosure met all international standards. 
  
 The zoo offered its condolences to the family of the deceased girl and said that "this kind of incident is rare, unpredictable and strange." The statement, written in French, added that similar types of incidents have happened recently in the United States, such as in Disney World Orlando and the Cincinnati Zoo, a reference to the 2-year-old boy who died after an alligator attack in June and when a 3-year-old boy fell into a gorilla enclosure in May. 
  
 C'est avec beaucoup de tristresse que le zoo de Rabat annonce le décès accidentel d'une petite fille victime d'un jet de pierre (1/2) — Rabatzoo (@Rabatzoo) July 27, 2016 
  
 Lancé par un éléphant https://t.co/EBWjCAe3lE 
  
 (2/2) — Rabatzoo (@Rabatzoo) July 27, 2016 
  
 But some social media users have criticized the way the zoo handled the case, according to Morocco World News, arguing that it took far too long for the ambulance to arrive and that there should have been an ambulance station already at the zoo. 
  
 "It can happen when elephants are frustrated or bored," Phyllis Lee, scientific director of the Amboseli Trust for Elephants told the BBC. "In my opinion, it's unlikely the elephant was directly targeting the girl — but exhibiting frustration. You can't predict what animals in captivity will do." 
  
 Read More: 
  
 How cronyism and lack of accountability are holding Morocco back 
  
 13 rejected headlines for this story about Moroccan boy prince denying hand kisses |||||