Soon after the results of France's presidential election were announced Sunday, showing a clear victory for centrist Emmanuel Macron against the far-right Marine Le Pen, messages of congratulations began flooding in from leaders across the world. 
  
 Across the EU, leaders breathed a sigh of relief as, in the wake of Brexit, French voters rejected the fiercely anti-Europe Le Pen 
  
 "Congratulations, @EmmanuelMacron. Your victory is a victory for a strong and united Europe and for French-German friendship," Germany Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman said on Twitter. 
  
 European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said he was happy that the French had chosen a "European future", while EU Council President Donald Tusk also offered his congratulations, saying the French had chosen "liberty, equality and fraternity" and "said no to the tyranny of fake news". 
  
 One of Macron's new responsibilities as French president will be negotiating the terms of Britain's exit from the EU along with the bloc's other leaders. 
  
 That task looked like it had already begun Sunday night, with a spokesperson for British Prime Minister Theresa May saying she had called Macron to "warmly congratulate him on his election victory", adding that the two had "briefly discussed Brexit and the Prime Minister reiterated that the UK wants a strong partnership with a secure and prosperous EU once we leave". 
  
 Across the Atlantic, US President Donald Trump also proffered his best wishes to the new French president. 
  
 "Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him!" he wrote on Twitter. 
  
 Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 7 mai 2017 
  
 His statement came despite Trump's ideologically similarities with Le Pen and the fact that he had earlier praised the National Front leader over her security policy. 
  
 Before the first round of the election last month, he said a deadly attack against a police officer in Paris would have a "big effect" on the vote and said Le Pen was "the strongest on what's been going on in France". 
  
 Hillary Clinton, Trump's defeated rival in last year's US presidential race, also reacted to Macron's victory on Twitter. 
  
 Victory for Macron, for France, the EU, & the world. 
  
  
  
 Defeat to those interfering w/democracy. (But the media says I can't talk about that) — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 7 mai 2017 
  
 "Victory for Macron, for France, the EU, & the world," she said. 
  
 The White House on Sunday issued a formal statement congratulating "Macron and the people of France on their successful presidential election". 
  
 Meanwhile, Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is likely to have more in common with the progressive, liberal politics of Macron than the US president, and he was quick to telephone France's election winner on Sunday night. 
  
 "I look forward to working closely with President-elect Macron in the years ahead as we work together on a progressive agenda to promote international security, increase collaboration in science and technology, and create good, middle class jobs on both sides of the Atlantic," Trudeau said in a statement earlier. 
  
 Congratulations @EmmanuelMacron! Let's meet soon, and keep working to grow & strengthen the deep ties between Canada and France. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) 7 mai 2017 
  
 Elsewhere, Brazil's President Michel Temer also congratulated Macron on Twitter, saying: "Brazil and France will continue to work together for democracy, human rights, development, integration and peace." 
  
 And Australia's prime minister hailed what he called an "historic election win". 
  
 "We will build even stronger ties between our two great nations," Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull tweeted. 
  
 (FRANCE 24 with AFP, AP, REUTERS) 
  
 Date created : 2017-05-08 ||||| When Emmanuel Macron chose to make his presidential victory speech to his supporters from the grand surroundings of the Louvre, he was sending a message about the style in which he intends to govern. The vast palace-turned-museum has, over centuries, stood for monarchy, empire and revolution: a mix of past glory and high culture with the modernity of a giant glass pyramid in its midst. 
  
 Macron is en route to the Elysée, but could find it hard to govern Read more 
  
 France’s youngest president has made two different promises for his leadership style. The 39-year-old has vowed to bring a youthful “revolution” to French politics but also to return to the historic tradition of a strong leader who can “embody the nation”. He believes that ever since King Louis XVI’s head was chopped off in the revolution, France has been constantly trying to compensate for the lack of a true leader figure who could personify France. Macron, a centrist political novice, who had never before run for election and until three years ago was unknown, believes he can fill the role of republican guide of the nation. 
  
 Macron’s first public gesture as president was to deliberately, solemnly make a long walk alone under spotlights across the Louvre’s Napoleon courtyard to Beethoven’s Ode to Joy, the European anthem. It was a carefully coordinated reference to the style of the late Socialist president François Mitterrand, who presented himself as a kind of republican, elected monarch. 
  
 Every new French leader wants to contrast the style of the president who went before. If the Socialist François Hollande – who was once Macron’s mentor – was a plodding “ordinary bloke” who described himself as “President Normal” and turned his own door handles at the Elysée instead of waiting for a butler, Macron wants to bring back what he styles as a lofty poise and distance. 
  
 But Macron, who will take office within days, will have no state of grace. He is taking over a country exhausted by decades of mass unemployment, impatient with a stagnant economy, still living under a state of emergency, facing a constant terrorist threat and at war abroad – with troops still deployed across the Sahel region of Africa against jihadi groups. 
  
 The election has highlighted a significant divide between rich and poor, between thriving, diverse cities and the far away de-industrialised peripheral areas and countryside. Millions chose the far right and the hard left in the two-round presidential race and many have reservations about Macron’s pro-business economic project, fearing livelihoods are threatened by globalisation. He has to prove he can reach out beyond his own camp, particularly since a significant proportion of those who voted him into office did so to keep out the far right rather than adhere to his policy plans. “He’s aware of the immense responsibility on his shoulders,” several members of his team repeated. 
  
 One of Macron’s first moves will be to cut and streamline France’s strict labour laws in favour of businesses. He has talked of using presidential decrees to push this through fast as soon as possible. But labour law changes were forced through by decree under Hollande and saw months of street demonstrations in 2016. Navigating the hangover from that social confrontation will be his first major challenge. 
  
 Macron knows better than most that the first days of a French presidency can make or break an entire mandate. He was deputy chief of staff to the Socialist president Hollande, whose lack of preparation and dithering in the early days led to an unpopularity from which he was never able to recover. Macron is also aware of ill omens. He was on the newly elected Hollande’s plane to Berlin to see Angela Merkel when it was hit by lightning – a metaphor for a tepid diplomatic relationship that did not fully recover. 
  
 The pro-European Macron will make his first foreign leader visit to Merkel quickly. He is also expected to make an early trip to see French troops in Mali to signal that French international military engagement will continue. 
  
 One of Macron’s most-repeated promises has been “efficiency” of government. He wants to introduce new ethics rules for politicians, including an initiative against nepotism after the corruption investigations of the rightwing candidate François Fillon and the investigations of Marine Le Pen’s party funding during the presidential campaign. He also wants quickly to loosen red tape for small businesses and cut class sizes in primary schools in disadvantaged areas. 
  
 But exactly how he will deliver his manifesto pledges depends on whom he appoints as prime minister and whether his fledgling “neither right or left” political movement En Marche! (On the Move!) can win a majority in the parliamentary elections in June. Without a majority, Macron’s hands will be tied. The next six weeks of parliamentary campaigning will be crucial. 
  
 There has never been so much secrecy surrounding who will be appointed French prime minister. Because the centrist Macron, who comes from no political party, needs to strike a balance between supporters from the left and right, he has kept quiet about who he will pick. He has said only that the prime minister must be “strong” and politically experienced. Speculation has ranged from a centrist ex-minister such as François Bayrou to ex-ministers from the political right or left, or the centrist MEP Sylvie Goulard, but it could also be an appointment from civil society. His 15-minister government will have a male-female balance, one-third of whom will be new to politics. 
  
 “We need to do away with this political class, which is all too often made of men over 50 who never had a proper job,” Macron has said, promising that his 577 parliamentary candidates will be half women and half political newcomers. 
  
 But if he doesn’t win a parliamentary majority, he will be plunged into horse-trading for a new type of coalition. He will need to be a very skilled politician to make it work and yet he says he hates politics and has little interest in it. “Being president of the Republic is not about loving politics, it’s about taking care of the French,” he has said, warning that previous presidents “loved politics too much” and that politics had become cut off from real people’s lives. 
  
 Becoming cut off has always been a risk for presidents who take over the gilded office at the grandiose Elysée palace, where the silence is punctuated by the sound of gold clocks chiming and the view from the leader’s desk is a vast expanse of manicured lawn behind high walls. “Of course power isolates,” Macron told an interviewer on the campaign trail, arguing that he would not let it happen to him. ||||| CLOSE Former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the expected defeat of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in the French presidential election Sunday. USA TODAY 
  
 Former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice (Photo: Jack Gruber, USAT) 
  
 WASHINGTON — Former secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warns against feeling reassured by the defeat of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in the French presidential election Sunday. 
  
 "I really do believe that these populists are changing the character of the politics just by being there, so even mainstream candidates are having to respond to their agenda," Rice told Capital Download. "You see fewer people talking about free trade. You see countries talking about industrial policy and protectionism. It's hard to defend immigrants almost any place in the world today. ... 
  
 "The rise of nativism is having an impact on the politics, even if the candidates aren't winning." 
  
 More than four years ago, Rice began writing a book about the challenges to democracy, especially in nations that only recently have moved toward free elections. Now Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom, is being published Tuesday by Twelve in the wake of the unexpected passage of Brexit in Great Britain and the surprise election of Donald Trump in the United States. 
  
 In a final chapter, Rice describes "the rise of populism, nativism, and a tinge of isolationism" around the world. "It is no surprise that this earthquake is shaking young democracies like Poland," she wrote. "But it is stunning that it has jolted the most mature of them." 
  
 The 486-page book is at its core a push-back to the America First ideology advocated by candidate Trump, the sense that the United States should be less engaged in international affairs and less concerned about advocating human rights outside its borders. Rice argues that the United States is essential in protecting and expanding democracies, an approach that she says ultimately safeguards American interests. 
  
 In an interview Saturday with USA TODAY's video newsmaker series, Rice was tempered in her comments about Trump — praising his national-security team as "outstanding," saying Secretary of State Rex Tillerson was "fantastic," and suggesting the president and his administration was successfully learning on the job. She declined to criticize the administration's proposal to cut the State Department budget by nearly 30% and to eliminate thousands of agency jobs. 
  
 Consider Trump's praise of authoritarian strongmen abroad, among them Russian President Vladimir Putin, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and even North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. "A pretty smart cookie," Trump said in an interview on CBS' Face the Nation last week. 
  
 Does that send a dangerous message? 
  
 "The president's words matter," Rice said, though she distinguished between allies like el-Sisi — "I have no problem with that" — and adversaries like the erratic Kim. 
  
 "The president of the United States is the most important voice for our foreign policy. He's the most important voice for our values and for our interests, and the use of that voice is important, and I think we're starting to see recognition of that." 
  
 While every new president faces a learning curve, she acknowledged that it may be particularly steep in this administration. "President Trump has never been in government," she noted. "As a matter of fact, a lot of the people around him have never been in government as well. Yes, I think that they are getting accustomed to what the presidency can do." 
  
 Democracy: Stories from the Long Road to Freedom, by Condoleezza Rice (Photo: Twelve, publisher) 
  
 Rice, now 62 and a professor at Stanford, was a National Security Council aide with a specialty in Russia for the elder President Bush. (She still occasionally watches Russian newscasts online.) During the younger President Bush's administration, she became the first woman to serve as White House national security adviser. She was secretary of State during George W. Bush's second term. 
  
 During last year's presidential campaign, she called for Trump to withdraw as a candidate after the release of the Access Hollywood tape that included audio of him bragging about sexually assaulting women. "Enough!" she wrote on Facebook in October. "Donald Trump should not be President." 
  
 Five months later, in March, she sat down with Trump in the White House for what she calls "a very good meeting." 
  
 "For me, he is the president of the United States," she said. "He won it fair and square. We have an electoral process in our democracy and I completely respect that process and its outcome. I also respect the fact that he saw something and felt something in the population that a lot of people didn't see. And people took the democratic road to find a candidate who they thought would represent their interests and deal with their aspirations, deal with their fears, and so I respect that. 
  
 "He's the president, and I'll do what I can to help him." 
  
 That is, to help him. Not to join his administration. 
  
 "I'm going to stay in California," she demurred. "I'm a happy professor." 
  
 A photo gallery of Condoleezza Rice: 
  
  
  
 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2pjX3uP ||||| PARIS (Reuters) - Emmanuel Macron was confronted on Monday with pressing reminders of the challenges facing him as France’s next president, even as allies and some former rivals signaled their willingness to work closely with him. 
  
 The 39-year-old centrist’s victory over far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen in Sunday’s election came as a huge relief to European Union allies who had feared another populist upheaval to follow Britain’s vote last year to leave the EU and Donald Trump’s election as U.S. president. 
  
 “He carries the hopes of millions of French people, and of many people in Germany and the whole of Europe,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel told a news conference in Berlin. 
  
 “He ran a courageous pro-European campaign, stands for openness to the world and is committed decisively to a social market economy,” the EU’s most powerful leader added, congratulating Macron on his “spectacular” election success. 
  
 But even while pledging to help France tackle unemployment, Merkel rejected suggestions Germany should do more to support Europe’s economy by importing more from its partners to bring down its big trade surplus. 
  
 European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker put it bluntly: “With France, we have a particular problem ... The French spend too much money and they spend too much in the wrong places. This will not work over time.” 
  
 The euro fell from six-month highs against the dollar on confirmation of Macron’s widely expected victory by a margin of 66 percent to 34 percent. Investors took profit on a roughly 3 percent gain for the currency since he won the first round two on April 23. 
  
 France’s economic malaise, especially high unemployment, had undermined the popularity of outgoing Socialist President Francois Hollande to the point where he decided not even to run again as a candidate. 
  
 “This year, I wanted Emmanuel Macron to be here with me so that a torch could be passed on,” said Hollande, appearing with Macron at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris to commemorate Victory in Europe Day and the surrender of Nazi forces on May 8, 1945 at the end of World War Two. 
  
 Elsewhere in Paris, more than 1,500 people, led by the powerful CGT labor federation, marched in protest against Macron’s planned liberalization of labor laws. 
  
 “If he continues with the idea of executive orders in July, that means he will sweep away consultation and dialogue, so there will be a problem one way or another. We shall see,” Jean-Claude Mailly, secretary general of the hardline leftist Force Ouvriere union told France Info radio. 
  
 PARLIAMENTARY MAJORITY 
  
 On assuming office next Sunday as France’s youngest leader since Napoleon, Macron faces the immediate challenge of securing a majority in the June parliamentary election to have a realistic chance of implementing his plans for lower state spending, higher investment and reform of the tax, labor and pension systems. 
  
 With the two mainstream parties - the conservative Republicans and the left-wing Socialists - both failing to reach the presidential runoff vote, his chances of winning a majority that supports his election pledges will depend on him widening his centrist base. 
  
 The Socialists are torn between the radical left of their defeated candidate Benoit Hamon and the more centrist, pro-business branch led by Manuel Valls, who was prime minister under Hollande. 
  
 Outgoing French President Francois Hollande (R) and President-elect Emmanuel Macron attend a ceremony to mark the end of World War II at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, France, May 8, 2017. REUTERS/Benoit Tessier 
  
 On Monday, key members of the centrist arm of The Republicans appeared ready to work with Macron despite the party hierarchy calling for unity to oppose the new president and calling those that were wavering “traitors”. 
  
 “I can work in a government majority,” said Bruno Le Maire, a senior Republicans official, who had been an aide of presidential candidate Francois Fillon, and is tipped by some to become the new foreign minister. 
  
 “The situation is too serious for sectarianism and to be partisan,” he said, later adding that Macron’s victory was positive for France. 
  
 However, a senior Republican, Christian Estrosi, who had backed Macron and been rumored to rally behind him, said on Monday he had turned down a ministerial post in order to focus on his home city of Nice. 
  
 “I will say things clearly: my only ambition is to serve my city and my region and not to enter the government,” Estrosi later told reporters. 
  
 Macron’s party chief, Richard Ferrand, told a news conference his “En Marche!” movement will now change its name to “En Marche la République” or “Republic on the Move”, so as to structure itself more like a traditional party. 
  
 He also said the names of Macron’s 577 candidates in the legislative elections would be announced this Thursday. 
  
 Macron stepped down from the chairmanship of the movement on Thursday and 68-year-old former Socialist government adviser Catherine Barbaroux was named as interim president. 
  
 Slideshow (22 Images) 
  
 Le Pen, 48, defiantly claimed the mantle of France’s main opposition in calling on “all patriots” to constitute a “new political force”. 
  
 Her tally was almost double the score that her father Jean-Marie, the last far-right candidate to make the presidential runoff, achieved in 2002, when he was trounced by the conservative Jacques Chirac. ||||| Image copyright AFP Image caption How did a 39-year-old with a new party who has never before been elected win the French presidency? 
  
 Emmanuel Macron has triggered a political earthquake in French politics. 
  
 A year ago, he was a member of the government of one of the most unpopular French presidents in history. 
  
 Now, at 39, he has won France's presidential election, defeating first the mainstream centre left and centre right and now the far right as well. 
  
 He got lucky 
  
 No doubt about it, Mr Macron was carried to victory in part by the winds of fortune. 
  
 A public scandal knocked out the initial frontrunner, centre-right candidate François Fillon; and Socialist candidate Benoît Hamon, already on the left fringe of the party, suffered a very public drubbing as traditional voters looked elsewhere. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption A "fake jobs" scandal put paid to the hopes of the early election frontrunner, François Fillon 
  
 "He was very lucky, because he was facing a situation that was completely unexpected," says Marc-Olivier Padis, of Paris-based think tank Terra Nova. 
  
 He was canny 
  
 Luck doesn't tell the whole story. 
  
 Mr Macron could have gone for the Socialist ticket, but he realised after years in power and dismal public approval ratings the party's voice would always struggle to be heard. 
  
 "He was able to foresee there was an opportunity when nobody could," says Mr Padis. 
  
 Instead, he looked at political movements that have sprung up elsewhere in Europe - Podemos in Spain, Italy's Five-Star Movement - and saw that there was no equivalent game-changing political force in France. 
  
 In April 2016, he established his "people-powered" En Marche! (On the move) movement and four months later he stood down from President François Hollande's government. 
  
 He tried something new in France 
  
 Having established En Marche, he took his cue from Barack Obama's grassroots 2008 US election campaign, says Paris-based freelance journalist Emily Schultheis. 
  
 His first major undertaking was the Grande Marche (Big March), when he mobilised his growing ranks of energised but inexperienced En Marche activists. 
  
 "The campaign used algorithms from a political firm they worked with - who by the way had volunteered for the Obama campaign in 2008 - to identify districts and neighbourhoods that were most representative of France as a whole," Ms Schultheis says. 
  
 "They sent out people to knock on 300,000 doors." 
  
 The volunteers didn't just hand out flyers - they carried out 25,000 in-depth interviews of about 15 minutes with voters across the country. That information was entered into a large database which helped inform campaign priorities and policies. 
  
 "It was a massive focus group for Macron in gauging the temperature of the country but also made sure that people had contact with his movement early on, making sure that volunteers knew how to go door to door. It was a training exercise that really laid the groundwork for what he did this year," Ms Schultheis explains. 
  
 And he capitalised on it. 
  
 He had a positive message 
  
 Mr Macron's political persona appears beset with contradictions. 
  
 The "newcomer" who was President Hollande's protege and then economy minister; the ex-investment banker running a grassroots movement; the centrist with a radical programme to slash the public sector. 
  
 It was perfect ammunition for run-off rival Marine Le Pen, who said he was the candidate of the elite, not the novice he said he was. 
  
 Image copyright Getty/AFP Image caption Protester versus pop music - observers said Le Pen rallies couldn't match the positivity on show at Macron gatherings 
  
 But he dodged attempts to label him as another François Hollande, creating a profile that resonated among people desperate for something new. 
  
 "There is a very prevalent pessimistic mood in France - in a way, too pessimistic - and he comes with a very optimistic, positive message," says Marc-Olivier Padis. 
  
 "He's young, full of energy, and he's not explaining what he'll do for France but how people will get opportunities. He's the only one to have this kind of message." 
  
 He was up against Marine Le Pen 
  
 Up against his more optimistic tone, Marine Le Pen's message came across as negative - anti-immigration, anti-EU, anti-system. 
  
 Macron campaign rallies featured brightly lit arenas blaring with pop music, says Emily Schultheis, while Marine Le Pen's mass meetings involved protesters throwing bottles and flares, a heavy police presence, dark audience stands and an "angrier" undercurrent. 
  
 Image copyright Reuters Image caption Emmanuel Macron's rallies came across as youthful and fresh, while his rival's message appeared more negative 
  
 The big TV debate on 3 May was an angry affair, with a string of insults hurled by both sides. 
  
 She was a "grand priestess of fear", a snake-oil merchant from the same extremist background as her father. He was a Socialist puppet, a dangerous tool of global finance who would do whatever Germany's Angela Merkel asked. 
  
 But many were alarmed by the prospect of a potentially destabilising and divisive far-right presidency and saw him as the last obstacle in her way. 
  
 Marine Le Pen may have run a highly effective campaign, but her poll ratings have been on the slide for months. She was ahead in the polls last year, nudging 30%, and yet in just two weeks she has been beaten twice by Emmanuel Macron. 
  
 Insults that marked fierce debate 
  
 The issues dividing Le Pen and Macron 
  
 In depth: Meteoric rise of Emmanuel Macron 
  
 In depth: Is Marine Le Pen far right? ||||| (CNN) By turning to Emmanuel Macron as its new president, France has elevated a charismatic new leader in the great political battle between globalism and nationalism that is underway in Western democracies. 
  
 The 39-year-old's win over far-right candidate Marine Le Pen Sunday in the second round of the French election represents liberal internationalism's most significant response yet to the populist tsunami that yielded President Donald Trump and Brexit and ended a crop of establishment political careers. 
  
 Macron, a proponent of globalization, centrist politics and the European Union, in effect erected a bastion against the unconventional and disruptive forces that have roiled developed world politics over the last year. 
  
 "This is our civilization that's at stake, our way of life," Macron said shortly after his victory, in which he took around 66% of the vote against Le Pen. 
  
 But it would be premature to declare that the populist wave has reached a high-water mark, given the recent turbulence in international politics. And Macron, who ran as an outsider despite establishment credentials, does bear some resemblance -- in his light political resume if nothing else -- to the neophyte leaders who have come from nowhere to shake up politics. 
  
 The French campaign trod what has become familiar ground in big Western elections over the last year. It saw the older, establishment politicians crushed as they failed to identify and adapt to waves of change. None of the traditional parties reached the run-off as voters in France, like elsewhere, soured on the same old choices. 
  
 As with the Brexit referendum and the US election last year, the election was fought on the fault line between well-off, cosmopolitan, urban elites and insurgents who tapped the frustrations of rural, less-educated and poorer voters, ones who are fixated on immigration policies and feel disenfranchised in a global economy that has hemorrhaged blue collar jobs. 
  
 A fresh-faced candidate wins 
  
 But this time, the elite candidate -- albeit one whose youth and outlook suggested a break from older, more conventional political forces -- came out on top. In effect, Macron ran on insider ground while adopting the rhetoric and habits of an outsider. 
  
 The graduate of exclusive French schools who become a banker and finance minister formed his own party "En Marche" to escape the taint of the political establishment. His youth was a break from the past in itself. He will be the youngest French president ever and the youngest French leader, period, since Napoleon. 
  
 That sense of freshness could help break the somber mood that has settled over French politics for years -- though his inexperience will also test him. 
  
 Such attributes allowed him to separate himself from old-school politics and the establishment "swamp" in a way that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, with her decades at the center of Washington intrigue, failed to do last year. 
  
 Macron's victory is likely to be studied by other centrist hopefuls in Europe and the United States as they struggle to combat the powerful economic message of candidates like Trump. 
  
 JUST WATCHED What to know about Emmanuel Macron Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to know about Emmanuel Macron 01:32 
  
 He will have to tackle the question of how to reach out to those who have given up on politics as usual and who find the promises of Trump and candidates like him so attractive. 
  
 In fact, Macron's enthusiastic support for the EU and globalization was an implicit rebuke to the instincts of Trump and those who successfully campaigned for Britain to leave the European Union. 
  
 He portrayed himself as a reformer, but as a bulwark against the forces of disruption dedicated to tearing down institutions rather than repairing them. 
  
 But he also took aim at the hidebound realities of French politics by warning of public spending cuts and more free market reforms designed to kick-start France's highly regulated economy. 
  
 Macron's triumph will buck up establishment figures who have had little to cheer in recent months: He was endorsed by former President Barack Obama, who is seeing his own legacy dismantled by the populist Trump. Macron also carried the hopes of European elites like German Chancellor Angela Merkel. 
  
 Trump, however, had seemed to hint earlier in the race that he preferred Le Pen. The US President has struck similar themes to Le Pen on Islamic terrorism and immigration. And following a terrorist attack in Paris last month, he tweeted: "Will have a big effect on presidential election!" 
  
 Reinforcing the EU 
  
 Despite the idiosyncrasies of the French race, many European analysts believe that Macron's win sent an unequivocal signal at an existential moment for EU unity. 
  
 "This is a victory of values, the values of the Enlightenment, the values of France, the values on which America was founded, the values from which the US and the UK have gone significantly astray," said Nicholas Dungan, an Atlantic Council senior fellow, who teaches at Sciences Po, a top international research university in France that counts Macron as among its most distinguished alumni. 
  
 "This is the end of know-nothing populism," he said. 
  
 Macron's victory is already being seen as an invigorating boost for the European Union, which was knocked sideways by the British decision to exit and would have faced a meltdown had Le Pen, an avowed opponent of the European bloc, won. 
  
 "The French electorate clearly said after Brexit, against all the forecasts from the Dr. Dooms of this world, that they were against Frexit and against leaving the Eurozone," said Philippe Le Corre, a Brookings Institution visiting fellow, who is a former French Defense Ministry official. 
  
 Just as Trump raged against Washington, Le Pen played into frustration with distant EU bureaucrats among blue collar voters, a tactic that proved potent for "Leave" campaigners in the British referendum. 
  
 JUST WATCHED Macron addresses nation after election Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Macron addresses nation after election 02:05 
  
 But this time, the anti-establishment fury was not enough. 
  
 In dramatic scenes Sunday, Macron, whose supporters often waved EU flags alongside those of the French tricolor, marched to his victory rally at the Louvre in Paris to the strains of Beethoven's "Ode to Joy" — which serves as the European anthem. 
  
 In many ways, the trauma of the UK's vote to leave Europe, which was warmly and repeatedly welcomed by Trump as a political achievement akin to his own shock election victory, appears to have concentrated the minds of French voters. 
  
 "The Brexit vote, you could even say, helped (Macron), because it helped France realize the importance of the European Union," said Dominic Thomas, head of the Department of French and Francophone Studies at UCLA, on CNN International. 
  
 There are some reasons to think that the populist wave has broken. 
  
 Le Pen's defeat follows a showing of far-right leader Geert Wilders in the Dutch election in March that fell short of expectations. In local council elections across the Channel last week, meanwhile, the UK Independence Party, which campaigned for Brexit, was all but wiped out. A surge by a right-wing populist party in Germany, the AfD, appears to have peaked ahead of Merkel's re-election bid in the fall. 
  
 Yet it would be premature to dismiss populist, anti-establishment sentiments as a force in modern Western politics. For one thing, some establishment parties have adopted populist positions -- one reason why UKIP voters, for instance, are moving back towards the Conservative Party in Britain ahead of a general election in June. 
  
 Le Pen splits France 
  
 And after all, Le Pen managed to garner around 34% of the vote in the second round of an election which opened up deep splits in French society. 
  
 Still, Macron's presidency may not count for much unless he is able to address the feelings of economic disenfranchisement and blight that have forced themselves to the fore in elections in the Western world over the last year. 
  
 Macron signaled in his victory speech that he understood the stakes, asking his supporters not to boo Le Pen or her partisans. 
  
 "They expressed today anger, dismay and sometimes strong beliefs. I respect them but I will do everything over the next five years to make sure there is no reason at all to vote for extremes," Macron said. 
  
 The new French President will also have to consider how to frame his relations with the United States and Trump, whom he will now encounter at the G7 and NATO summits in Europe this month. 
  
 Populist influences in the White House, including political guru Steve Bannon, have been openly critical of the European Union. 
  
 But Trump played it straight down the line on Sunday, writing on Twitter: "Congratulations to Emmanuel Macron on his big win today as the next President of France. I look very much forward to working with him!" 
  
 Macron, for all his philosophical, generational and temperamental differences with Trump, is likely to move carefully, stressing areas of agreement with the administration -- on fighting terrorism for instance. 
  
 But he is likely to be critical of Trump in places where the US and France differ, like climate change. |||||