Melika Jackson 
  
 My mom met her biological mother for the first time on oovoo. She has never met her mom nor knew that her mother was alive. This is her reaction to us finding her mother and seeing her for the first time. Happy early Mothers Day Mom! A gofundme account has been created to raise funds for my mother to meet her mother and family. It would be wonderful to have your full support to make this happen. The link is: 
  
 Thank you everyone! My mom met her biological mother for the first time on oovoo. She has never met her mom nor knew that her mother was alive. This is her reaction to us finding her mother and seeing her for the first time. Happy early Mothers Day Mom! A gofundme account has been created to raise funds for my mother to meet her mother and family. It would be wonderful to have your full support to make this happen. The link is: gofundme.com/3s6fv287 Thank you everyone! ||||| CLOSE Forty-nine years ago, Zella Jackson-Price was told her newborn baby girl died hours after her birth. Turns out, that wasn't true. Watch their tearful, emotional reunion years later. VPC 
  
 Zella Jackson-Price meets her daughter Melanie for the first time (Photo: KSDK) 
  
 Standing outside her Olivette home Thursday afternoon, 76-year-old Zella Jackson-Price rattled off the names of her six adult children. 
  
 "Sharon, Theon, then Diane, then Harvey, Lisa, and the baby boy Chuck." 
  
 In an unusual reunion, Jackson-Price was about to meet one of her children, Melanie Diane Gilmore, for the first time, 49 years after she says a nurse told her the premature child died hours after her birth. According to Jackson-Price, in 1965 at Homer G. Phillips Hospital, Jackson-Price gave birth to baby Diane. Shortly after, a nurse delivered the worst news possible. 
  
 "She came up to me three hours later and said your baby passed." 
  
 Forty-nine-year old Melanie Diane Gilmore of Oregon, very much alive, arrived at Lambert St. Louis International Airport Thursday afternoon, excited about the reunion of a lifetime. She would soon meet her mother. First, she was greeted and hugged by her brother Harvey Price Junior. Gilmore's son and twin daughters began searching for their grandmother last year, and connected with the help of Facebook. Eventually a DNA test confirmed the grandchildren's detective work. 
  
 Back in Olivette, Price-Jackson was anxiously waiting for the arrival of Melanie Diane, who has been hearing-impaired since the age of three. 
  
 "She's deaf and can't hear because of measles and I think if she had been with me this would not have happened," said Jackson-Price. "I want to see her roll down this street. I guess I might snatch her out of the car." 
  
 Finally, Jackson-Price saw her son's white SUV carrying a daughter and grandchild she was meeting for the first time. With a loud, joyful scream, Jackson-Price hugged Melanie Diane in a tight embrace. 
  
 Once St. Louis' only hospital for African Americans, Homer G. Phillips Hospital closed in 1979, and became senior living apartments in 2003. Was this former hospital the scene of a kidnapping nearly 50 years ago? 
  
 When this story aired a second time Friday afternoon, a woman called KSDK's newsroom, saying her parents had a similar story: a baby girl born at Homer G. Phillips Hospital in 1953; the woman said a nurse told her parents the girl died. KSDK is looking into her story. 
  
 The Price family said eventually it will hire an attorney to investigate what happened 49 years ago. 
  
 "I'm still kinda in shock," said Jackson-Price. "I don't know what we'll find out, what error, what was done, I don't know what we'll find out. As soon as we get over the excitement of being together, and everything, I will seek a lawyer." 
  
 In the meantime, Jackson-Price said she'll be busy spoiling her daughter and grandchildren. A mystery that may never be solved will have to wait. 
  
 Only time can heal those wounds, only time," said Jackson-Price. "It's a new chapter." 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1ykhknX ||||| Published on Mar 8, 2015 
  
 COPYRIGHT @ 2015 MELIKA JACKSON For the past 49 years, my mother, Melanie Diane Gilmore (Jackson) has been suffering with the absence of a mother and my grandmother, Zella Jackson-Price, from the absence of her daughter. On November 25th, 1965 a beautiful, premature miracle was born in St. Louis, MO at Homer G. Phillips Hospital (the first hospital in St. Louis to bore African-American children). My grandmother bore a baby girl and was told that her daughter had died within the first five hours of being born due to her being premature, so my grandmother was never able to see her daughter. Unfortunately, the people affiliated with the birth of my grandmother’s child had underestimated my mother’s will to live and decided to perform an unlawful act which involved the kidnapping of a child. Someone unlawfully covered up a kidnapping for 49 years from a mother who loves her children dearly. 
  
 In August 2014, an attempt was made by Melanie’s children to begin the search of their grandmother, Zella Jackson-Price, by contacting her family members via Facebook message but there was not enough evidence to prove Zella had a daughter named Melanie so this search was discontinued until February 20th, 2015. On this day, one of Melanie’s daughters messaged Zella with questions regarding to having a daughter in 1965. Zella messaged back with questions, answers, and facts of birthing a baby girl. 
  
 In order to prove that Zella and Melanie were biologically related to one another, a dna test had to be performed. Melanie and Zella took a paternity test by swabbing each others mouths and sending it off to the DNA Diagnostic Center. A few days after the swab tests were sent to the center, the results came back. The results had stated that Zella Jackson-Price was the mother of Melanie Diane Gilmore (Jackson) and it was a 99.9997% match. 
  
 On March 8th, 2015 Melanie’s children decided to break the news to their mother by surprising her with the paternity results and an oovoo conversation with her biological mother and family. A video was posted on facebook, here is the link: https://www.facebook.com/video.php?v=... to show her reaction to her children finding her mother. It would be greatly appreciated if you could donate to this cause and help reunite Melanie and her family. 
  
 Thank you, 
  
 Melanie’s Children |||||