Only bottom-club Rotherham have conceded more goals in the last 10 minutes than Cardiff.
"The late goals are frustrating I am sure for the fans, but is devastating for especially a defender, all of us in the back four," he said.
"It is something we have to improve on, the whole team, not just the back four. We have to see games out."
Cardiff have conceded almost 30% of their goals between 80-90 minutes this season, including in their last three games.
The Bluebirds were held by Birmingham last time out as Lukas Jutkiewicz bundled in a rebound after his header was saved.
Cardiff also conceded an injury-time equaliser against Blackburn, while defeat at QPR in their previous fixture came courtesy of an 83rd-minute own goal by Jazz Richards.
"The last couple of games we have controlled and then let slip right at the end," said Morrison.
"We need to learn lessons now for next season, which is what the gaffer is trying to build on, finishing well this year."
Morrison also says the whole team has a responsibility to improve their "game management".
"It does start from the front, it is not just the defenders and a goalkeeper," he said.
"It is game management, one of the boys made a good point yesterday. He said 'we can win a game 1-0'.
"You don't have to win two or three; you don't get any more points for scoring an extra goal.
"And there are certain periods in the game we just need to see it out.
"That nous and knowhow is down to us, the players. It just hasn't been good enough.
"It is hugely disappointing and something we know we have to improve on, from now until the end of the season and then next year."
Ahead of hosting Ipswich on Saturday 18 March, Cardiff boss Neil Warnock said he is enjoying "weekly" meetings to discuss transfer targets for next season.
However, Morrison believes knowing that Warnock has grand plans to strengthen City is only going to have a positive effect on the current squad.
"We know there will probably be new faces next year so it is about building a solid base to give it a right good go.
"Maybe we are driven by knowing new players are coming in. I just think that is what the football industry is.
"I have never been at a club where there aren't new signings every year.
"You are always wary that if they come in, in your position, they are going to be a 'liked' player.
"It is just one of those things you need to take on the chin. It is business, it is football and if you have to fight for your position, that's football.
"If you do well week in week out, you probably won't lose your spot."