UPDATE 2/23: The Wichita Police Department is presenting their case to the DA Monday regarding this case. It is not yet known whether they will be trying to charge 1 or 2 people. We’ll have updates as they become available. 
  
 WICHITA, Kansas – Louie, the Joyland Clown mascot, was found in a sex offender’s home. Louie went missing more than a decade ago. 
  
 Louie disappeared from the Joyland property in 2005 or 2006 but wasn’t reported stolen until 2010. Louie played Joyland’s Wurlitzer organ (see video below). 
  
 The Wichita Police Department will pursue charges against two suspects in the case. 
  
 Wichita police say officers found the clown Tuesday at a home of 39-year-old Damian Mayes, who is serving a prison sentence for a 2010 conviction for aggravated indecent liberties with a child and aggravated criminal sodomy. Mayes used to build and repair organs at the park. He’s in prison on child sex crimes. 
  
 “It was quite a shock, because we had visited that residence before. They didn’t expect us back, they thought it was a done deal, closed, forgotten case, but like I said, through social media and a lot of interest not only in Joyland but the clown in particular, kind of kept it alive,” said Det. Matt Lang, Wichita Police Department. “There’s many articles that said once Louie disappeared, he would never see the sight of day again.” 
  
 Photos: Louie The Clown returns 
  
 Lang said a phone tip led to the discovery. Police say Louie was in plain sight when they arrived and after having his identity confirmed by owners. 
  
 “The end result is going to be, Louie the clown is going to return to its rightful owner, and I have, I still have the case, I have district attorney’s appointment Monday, and we’re going to pursue charges on the case,” said Lang. 
  
 Det. Lang says he has only been working the case about a month when the tip came in. He says he remembered the clown from his childhood. 
  
 “There was a lot of interest not only in Joyland, but the clown in particular kinda kept it alive, I didn’t know a whole lot about it and had to do some research myself, and I didn’t realize there was such an interest,” said Det. Lang. 
  
 Police say that the nearly 50-year-old clown is worth $10,000. Officials will be filing felony charges against Mayes and one other person to the case. 
  
 Joyland in Wichita was open for 55 years until 2004. It closed and briefly reopened. 
  
 Photos: Joyland Amusement Park | Follow Louie on Twitter 
  
 To leave a comment about Louie follow KSN News on Facebook or Twitter ||||| The mystery of whatever became of Louie the Clown has finally been solved. 
  
 Nearly a decade after it went missing, the Joyland mascot was re-introduced Thursday at a media briefing in City Hall. 
  
 For more than half a century, Louie the Clown played the Wurlitzer organ at Wichita’s Joyland Amusement Park. In a police briefing Thursday, Detective Matt Lang said Louie disappeared from Joyland sometime in 2005 or 2006 and was officially reported stolen in 2010. 
  
 Never miss a local story. Sign up today for a free 30 day free trial of unlimited digital access. SUBSCRIBE NOW 
  
 As Lang spoke, Louie sat in a chair near the podium in the Wichita Police Department’s briefing room. 
  
 “Obviously, you see someone sitting next to me who is known as an icon in the city of Wichita,” Lang said. 
  
 “There was a lot of social media interest that kind of led and kept this case alive. After some investigation, went to a residence and was able to obtain a permission from that individual and located Louie inside the residence. We then obtained a search warrant to recover Louie and here he sits today.” 
  
 On Tuesday afternoon, Wichita police searched a house north of Hydraulic and Kellogg connected with Damian Mayes and located the missing clown. Mayes was a former employee of the park who renovated and repaired the Wurlitzer organ. 
  
 A Harvey County jury convicted Mayes in 2010 of aggravated indecent liberties with a child and aggravated criminal sodomy. Mayes, 39, is serving his sentence at the Norton Correctional Facility and is not eligible for parole until 2028, according to Kansas Department of Corrections records. 
  
 Three groups worked together to bring Louie the Clown home – members of the Wichita Police Department, Margaret and Stan Nelson’s family who owned Joyland, at 2801 S. Hillside; and the Historic Preservation Alliance of Wichita and Sedgwick County. 
  
 “It is a great feeling we finally have found it (Louie),” said Margaret Nelson Spear. “… It is a big relief. We are pleased.” 
  
 Lang said he has an appointment Monday with Sedgwick County District Attorney Marc Bennett and “we are going to pursue charges on this case.” 
  
 Mayes may face felony theft charges, Lang said. Louie is valued at $10,000. Another suspect may also face charges. 
  
 Mayes helped restore the clown in 1994. In 2008 police went to Mayes’ house on a tip, but did not find anything. 
  
 "I have a pretty good passion for him, " Mayes said of the clown in 2008. "It's really pretty upsetting." 
  
 In the years since he disappeared, Louie the Clown obtained urban legend status. 
  
 “Like Lazarus rising from the dead, we have Louie the Clown recovered,” said Greg Kite, president of the Historic Preservation Alliance of Wichita and Sedgwick County. “We have been working on this for months, accumulating information, photographs and statements.” 
  
 Postings on Facebook helped authorities link Mayes’ residence with the clown, Kite said. The postings were made by a relative of Mayes. 
  
 “I can’t undervalue Facebook postings,” Kite said. “It is amazing what people will say – unknowingly or unwittingly.” 
  
 Kite referred to Louie as one of the most symbolic pieces from Joyland: beloved by some, creeped out by others. 
  
 “Louie at the organ is what all children remember,” Kite said. “He was intriguing – a little scary looking at his face …You always had opposing feelings of excitement and a little fear. 
  
 “He is one of the marquee pieces from Joyland and needs to be preserved for the community.” 
  
 Joyland began shortly after the end of World War II with brothers Harold and Herb Ottaway and their father, Lester Ottaway. In 1949 and 1950, the Ottaways bought the 40-acre tract where Joyland Park sits today. They also bought Louie about that same time. 
  
 From there, they began building it into a family attraction. Louie and the Wurlitzer were modified to play mechanized paper rolls of songs. 
  
 In the early 1970s, Stan and Margaret Nelson purchased Joyland from the Ottaways. They ran it until 2005, when two groups made unsuccessful attempts to operate and buy Joyland. 
  
 Kite, who said he put his law practice on hold for several months to help investigate Louie’s whereabouts, said Louie is one-of-a-kind for Wichita. 
  
 “We can talk about the fact that there are probably less than a dozen of these organ-playing clowns in existence,” Kite said. “But the thing is, it is priceless to Wichita because it is the only one here. It is Louie the clown, which is linked part and parcel to Joyland Park.” 
  
 Lang said that when Wichita police went to Mayes’ home earlier this week, Louie the Clown was found inside in plain view. Margaret and Stan’s son, Roger Nelson, confirmed for police the clown was Louie. Boxes that Louie sat on also were recovered. 
  
 “While we are glad to have him back, this is just one little win that we have with this disaster of Joyland being torn apart by vandals,” Roger Nelson said. 
  
 Other items from Joyland may also be recovered as police continue their investigation, Lang said. 
  
 Lang said he began the investigation about a month ago by answering a phone call at his desk. 
  
 “I answered the phone and talked with an individual who was very excited about having information in reference to Louie the Clown and it jogged my memory from childhood,” Lang said. “I like the strange and unusual cases and so instead of hanging up and ignoring him, I talked with him. 
  
 “The more I talked with him the more credible information he had. They had done their own private investigation and made my job easy.” 
  
 Lang said it was Facebook references to Joyland that helped detectives track down Louie. 
  
 “There is a group of people on there all the time talking about everything from … the Wacky Shack, the carousel, the go-carts, the roller coaster. Louie was always brought up in the conversations. 
  
 “There were many articles that said once Louie disappeared, he would never see the light of day again. … Well, here he is.” ||||| Play Facebook 
  
 Twitter 
  
 Google Plus 
  
 Embed Missing Clown Found at Home of Sex Offender 1:09 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog 
  
 An iconic mechanical clown that went missing from its home at a shuttered Wichita, Kansas, amusement park more than 10 years ago ago turned up Tuesday in the house of a convicted sex offender, authorities said. 
  
 Louie the Clown, a life-sized, perma-smiling, cone-hatted doll, spent decades at the keys of a Wurlitzer organ at the Joyland Amusement Park. 
  
 Generations of locals remember him from their childhood. But Joyland closed in 2004, and Louie disappeared from the property a year or two later. In 2010, Louie was reported stolen, triggering public fascination with his whereabouts. 
  
 Then Wichita police got a phone tip that led them to the home of Damian Mayes, 39, who used to build and repair organs at the park and is now serving a prison term for child sex crimes, local NBC affiliate KSN reported. 
  
 Louie, now 50 years old and worth an estimated $10,000, was there in plain sight. Police said they planned to seek criminal charges against Mayes and a second person whom they did not identify. 
  
 "It was quite a shock, because we had visited that residence before. They didn't expect us back, they thought it was a done deal, closed, forgotten case, but like I said, through social media and a lot of interest not only in Joyland but the clown in particular, kind of kept it alive," said Det. Matt Lang with the Wichita Police Department. "There's many articles that said once Louie disappeared, he would never see the sight of day again." 
  
 Louie the Clown, who went missing from a closed Wichita amusement park more than a decade ago, has been found at the home of a sex offender. KSN News 
  
 SOCIAL 
  
 After some tips and follow-up work by Det. Lang, Louie the clown has been recovered after being stolen from Joyland. pic.twitter.com/J6fxqKxeUw — Wichita Police (@WichitaPolice) February 19, 2015 
  
 Detectives contacted Roger Nelson to identify the clown to make sure it was Louie. He confirmed. Other items may also be recovered. — Deb Farris (@Deb_Farris) February 19, 2015 
  
 — Jon Schuppe |||||