Perjeta was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2012 and is already considered the standard of care in the United States. 
  
 Still, the results could lead to increased use of the drug. Only about half of the eligible women are being treated with the drug in the United States, according to Edward Lang Jr., a spokesman for Roche. And doctors say use is lower in many countries where cost is more of an issue. 
  
 In the United States, Perjeta costs about $5,900 a month and Herceptin about $5,300 a month, Mr. Lang said. He said Perjeta was priced lower than some other new cancer medicines because it has to be used with Herceptin. Some recently approved cancer drugs cost more than $10,000 a month. 
  
 Roche reported Perjeta sales of 388 million Swiss francs, or about $408 million, in the first half of this year, with about $250 million of that coming from the United States. 
  
 The trial, sponsored by Roche, involved 808 patients around the world with previously untreated HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Half of them received Perjeta, Herceptin and the chemotherapy drug docetaxel. The other half received Herceptin, docetaxel and a placebo in place of Perjeta. 
  
 The median survival time for those who received Perjeta was 56.5 months, or about four and a half years, compared with 40.8 months for those in the control group, a difference of 15.7 months. By another measure, known as the hazard ratio, use of Perjeta reduced the risk of dying 32 percent. 
  
 Use of Perjeta delayed the progression or worsening of the cancer only about six months in the trial. Experts said it was not clear why the drug extended lives so much longer than that. ||||| A new but very expensive breast cancer drug has shown “unprecedented” benefits in extending the lives of women with an aggressive form of the disease. 
  
 Data released by the pharmaceutical company Roche suggests Perjeta could, in combination with other drugs, increase the survival of women with advanced breast cancer by 15 months. The results will raise the stakes in the battle in the UK over the funding of cancer drugs. 
  
 Perjeta was turned down in principle by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Nice) for routine NHS use last year, but women can obtain it if their doctor applies to the Cancer Drugs Fund, set up by the government to take the political heat out of the question of access to expensive new cancer medicines. 
  
 However, the fund, due to be closed in 2016, has been massively overspent and it is generally agreed not to be a long-term solution to the problem of which drugs the NHS will pay for and at what price. 
  
 Nice has not given its final opinion, but turned down Perjeta in draft guidance because there was not enough evidence to show how long it would extend life. 
  
 Roche will say the study answers that question, but Nice will then be faced with the affordability question. Perjeta costs £2,395 per 420mg vial. Patients need double that dose initially and then one vial every three weeks, which adds up to more than £43,000 a year. It has to be used in combination with Roche’s blockbuster Herceptin and also the chemotherapy drug docetaxel, adding to the cost. 
  
 Roche claims the new trial data, presented at a conference of the European Society for Medical Oncology in Madrid, shows that the combined treatment can extend the survival of women with advanced HER2+ breast cancer by 15.7 months more than the current standard treatment. 
  
 “These results are impressive,” said Professor David Miles, a consultant medical oncologist at the Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, who led the study for Roche. “They show a magnitude of survival benefit which we have never seen before in advanced breast cancer, let alone this particular type, previously regarded as having a poor prognosis and being difficult to treat.” 
  
 Patient groups, which used to blame Nice when it failed to approve drugs for the NHS, are now starting to criticise the companies. One of them, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, has launched a campaign for them to lower their prices. 
  
 “Breast cancer patients and their families are paying the price for the failures of the pharmaceutical industry and of government to find a long-term solution,” it says in its campaign material. “It’s impossible to put a price on life’s precious moments. But it’s not impossible to put a fair price on drugs which could stop more of these moments being missed.” 
  
 Dr Sarah Rawlings, of Breakthrough, said the Perjeta results were very impressive and that the organisation had been disappointed with Nice’s decision last year, but made it clear that price was a big issue. “Whilst women in England can currently get access to Perjeta through the Cancer Drugs Fund, unfortunately there is no such allowance for the rest of the UK, meaning highly effective but incredibly expensive drugs are not routinely available to those that need them,” she said. 
  
 The fund, set up with a budget of £200m a year, has overspent by £150m this year. Last month the health secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said it would get an extra £80m a year, but at current spending levels it will remain in the red. Much of its budget goes on drugs made by Roche, whose most recent breast cancer drug, Kadcyla, costs £90,000 per patient – far higher than the Nice maximum of £50,000 for a cancer drug at the end of life. 
  
 Separately, a charity has said more than 700,000 women in the UK are living with a hidden risk of breast cancer. Breast Cancer Campaign said women deemed to have high breast density were at a significantly higher risk of developing the disease than others. High density means there is more collagen and glandular tissue, rather than fatty tissue, in a woman’s breasts. 
  
 A clinical trial recently found that 8.3% of women aged 47 to 75 are deemed to have a high breast density. The charity said that based on population estimates, 721,187 women fell into this category. Research has also shown that women with the highest density are up to five times more likely to develop breast cancer than women with low density. 
  
 Delyth Morgan, chief executive at Breast Cancer Campaign, said: “The best weapon in overcoming breast cancer is the ability to stop the disease occurring in the first place. To do this, we need better ways to identify who is most at risk. The emerging evidence on risk factors such as breast density, which we now know is putting hundreds of thousands of women at risk of developing breast cancer, must be taken into consideration and more must be done.” 
  
 The charity has commissioned research exploring whether monitoring a woman’s breast density could help determine whether she would benefit from risk-reducing treatment such as preventive drugs. It also hopes there will be a pilot scheme to look into whether or not incorporating information about breast density should be included in the NHS breast screening programme. ||||| First-line treatment with pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and docetaxel significantly improved overall survival 
  
 In the CLEOPATRA study, first-line treatment with pertuzumab/trastuzumab/docetaxel significantly improved overall survival (OS) for patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer compared with placebo/trastuzumab/docetaxel, providing a 15.7 month increase in the median values. The median OS of 56.5 months is unprecedented in first-line and this substantial improvement confirms the pertuzumab containing regimen as standard of care in this setting, reported Prof. Sandra Swain of the Medstar Washington Hospital Center, Washington Cancer Institute, Washington, USA during the Presidential Symposium 1 at ESMO Congress 2014 in Madrid, Spain. 
  
 In the CLEOPATRA study, 808 patients from 25 countries with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer were randomised to receive first-line placebo/trastuzumab/docetaxel or pertuzumab/trastuzumab/docetaxel. Randomisation was stratified by geographic region and neo/adjuvant chemotherapy. 
  
 The patients were eligible for the study if they had HER2-positive (centrally confirmed), metastatic, locally recurrent, or unresectable breast cancer, measurable or non-measurable disease; had received ≤ 1 hormonal regimen for metastatic breast cancer prior to randomisation, disease-free interval at least 12 months since prior 
  
 neo/adjuvant treatment, and LVEF ≥ 50% at baseline. 
  
 The study primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS) independently assessed. Secondary endpoints included investigator-assessed PFS, objective response rate, safety, and OS. Final analysis was planned at 385 deaths, with two interim analyses at 165 and 267 deaths. 
  
 At primary analysis in May 2011, pertuzumab was shown to increase PFS significantly, with a strong trend to OS benefit. At a second interim analysis in May 2012, the OS was improved to a degree which was both statistically significant and clinically meaningful with hazard ratio (HR) 0.66 (p = 0.0008), but the median OS in patients who received pertizumab was not reached. 
  
 In July 2012, the patients still on placebo were offered crossover to pertuzumab. 
  
 At ESMO 2014 the CLEOPATRA researchers reported results of a final prespecified OS analysis (February 2014). This OS analysis was planned when ≥385 deaths were reported. The log-rank test, stratified by prior treatment status and geographic region, was used to compare OS between arms, applying the threshold of p ≤ 0.0456. Subgroup analyses of OS were performed for stratification factors and other key baseline characteristics. 
  
 At median follow-up of 50 months (range 0 to 70 months), the statistically significant improvement in OS in favour of pertuzumab/trastuzumab/docetaxel arm was maintained (HR = 0.68, p = 0.0002). Median OS was 40.8 months in the placebo arm and 56.5 months in the pertuzumab arm, with difference of 15.7 months. 
  
 The OS benefit in predefined subgroups was consistent with previous observations. It is to be noted that following the previous report of OS benefit, 48 patients in the placebo arm crossed over to the pertuzumab arm. 
  
 The PFS in pertuzumab arm was 18.7 vs 12.4 months in placebo arm, HR 0.68 (p < 0.0001). 
  
 Median time on study treatment was 17.4 months in pertuzumab arm vs 11.4 months in placebo group. 
  
 Conclusion 
  
 The safety profile of pertuzumab/trastuzumab/docetaxel in the overall population and in patients who crossed over to the pertuzumab arm was consistent with the known safety profile of pertuzumab with more pronounced diarrhoea, rash, mucosal inflammation, pruritus, dry skin, and muscle spasm. No new safety concerns were seen with longer follow-up. There was no evidence of cumulative or late toxicity. The long-term cardiac safety profile was maintained. 
  
 Dr Lica Gianni, who discussed the study results, said that CLEOPATRA is an unquestionable therapeutic success with an unquestionable clinical implication: docetaxel/trastuzumab/pertuzumab is the new standard, not an option for first-line treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. However, adjuvant trastuzumab was administered in only 10% of the study population. Dr Gianni said that the therapeutic role and wide applicability of dual HER2-blockade with monoclonal antibodies is established but new therapeutic approaches to improve the overall results of CLEOPATRA should address the different biology and different drug sensitivity of subsets of HER2-positive tumours. 
  
 Improvements can be expected by addressing key features of HER2-positive breast cancer linked to different sensitivity in term of hormone receptor status (positive vs negative), PIK3CA status (wild type vs mutant), and immune environment. 
  
 The CLEOPATRA study did not allow endocrine therapy of patients with ER-positive tumours. Dual blockade of HER2 with pertuzumab/trastuzumab and concomitant endocrine therapy is feasible as shown by APHINITY study in the adjuvant setting. Dr Gianni wondered if the addition of endocrine therapy after the end of chemotherapy can increase the already large benefit observed in women with HER2-positive/ER-positive metastatic breast cancer patients enrolled in the CLEOPATRA study. 
  
 The PIK3CA status can be easily assessed on tumour biopsies or liquid biopsies. Many PI3K inhibitors are available and being tested in combination with standard HER2-directed therapy. T-DM1 is similarly active in HER2-positive tumours harbouring PIK3CA mutation. Therapies tailored according to PIK3CA mutational status of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer should be tested. 
  
 Immune mechanisms and tumour lymphocyte infiltration are involved in the probability of pCR in HER2-positive breast cancer. There is a high expression of PDL1 and CTLA4 linked to residual disease in ER-negative tumours. Dr Gianni concluded that tests should be carried out to see if blocking of CTLA4 and/or PD1/PDL1 will be useful for some patients treated per the CLEOPATRA protocol. 
  
 Reference ||||| In Madrid today, researchers presented new findings on the effectiveness of Perjeta (pertuzumab, Roche), a monoclonal antibody used in combination with other drugs to treat some types of breast cancer. The updated report on the CLEOPATRA trial supports that adding Perjeta to Herceptin and chemotherapy significantly extends survival in patients with Her2-overexpressing (Her2+) metastatic breast cancer. 
  
 The international randomized trial, funded by Roche, included over 800 women with advanced Her2+ disease. The study participants all took Herceptin (trastuzumab, an antibody) and docetaxel (a chemotherapy, usually sold as Taxotere) and, based on the randomization, also received infusions of Perjeta or a placebo. Overall survival among women who received Perjeta was extended by nearly 16 months, as compared to the control. 
  
 Over half of the women with Her2+ metastatic breast cancer who received all three drugs (Perjeta, Herceptin and chemotherapy) lived for over 4.5 years on the study. This result confirms and bolsters earlier results of CLEOPATRA study, published in the NEJM, which led to the FDA’s initial 2012 approval of Perjeta for use in metastatic breast cancer. 
  
 The survival improvement is “unprecedented among studies of metastatic breast cancer,” said Dr. Sandra Swain, an oncologist and professor at Georgetown University in Washington DC. Swain, who has spoken and consulted for Roche, presented the group’s findings at the 2014 annual meeting of the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO). 
  
 As reported in abstract form, the investigators observed no additional toxicity from the drugs beyond those previously reported. Both antibodies - Herceptin and Perjeta – can cause serious cardiac problems including heart failure. As discussed, patients who received Perjeta were more likely to develop problems from low white blood cells and diarrhea. Docetaxel, the chemotherapy “backbone” of the regimen, can cause allergic responses, neuropathy and other side effects. 
  
 Despite those side effects, most patients tolerated the 3-drug combination fairly well; patients stayed on the full treatment study arm for a median of 17.4 months – essentially 1.5 years. For some patients, financial concerns may prove limiting, especially for patients who might want these drugs outside of a clinical trial setting. These are expensive medications. The antibodies alone cost between $5,000 and $6,000 each, per month. 
  
 “It’s an important trial,” said Dr. Mark Moasser, a breast cancer researcher at the University of California, San Francisco. He is not involved in the Cleopatra study. His lab investigates how Her2 and related molecules keep malignant cells alive, and how survival signals might be intercepted. 
  
 One problem – and why the drugs are given in combination – is that the antibodies by themselves have only moderate activity, Moasser said by phone. “To win FDA approval, the companies often combine the new drugs with highly active chemotherapies,” he said. “This leverages the full potential of the biological agents, leading to much wider use and marketability.” 
  
 The percentage of breast tumors with high Her2 levels ranges between 20 and 25 percent. Since 1998, when Herceptin was first approved by the FDA for use in metastatic Her2+ breast cancer, the prognosis for patients with that condition has improved significantly. Since the mid-1990s, Her2+ tumors have changed from being one of the most difficult-to-treat and aggressive breast cancer subtypes, to one for which there are multiple therapies a patient might try. 
  
 Other FDA-approved drugs that target Her2 include Kadcyla (T-DM1, what’s essentially trastuzumab linked to a toxin, emtansine, aka “super-Herceptin”) and Tykerb (lapatinib, a kinase inhibitor). The centricity of Her2 results in determining a patient’s best treatment led the American Society of Clinical Oncology and the College of American Pathologists to jointly publish new guidelines on Her2 testing in 2013. 
  
 An obvious limitation is that new drugs targeting Her2 are unlikely to help the overwhelming majority of breast cancer patients whose tumor cells lack excess Her2 expression. 
  
 On the other hand, some seemingly unrelated cancer forms may respond to these new agents . Already, the FDA has approved Herceptin for metastatic gastric and esophageal cancers that over-express Her2. 
  
 “These drugs have implications in other cancers,” Moasser said. Besides the known over-expressing gastric and esophageal cancer subsets, there are smaller subsets of lung, endometrial, colon, bladder, salivary gland and other cancers in which Her2 is amplified, he considered. “Those tumors are not routinely being tested for Her2,” he said. “But in the world of genomic medicine where everyone’s tumor is being sequenced, this is going to change. In principle, these drugs should be effective in any HER2-amplified cancer unless proven otherwise.” |||||