All anomalies detected will be subject to further analysis, the researchers said. "We need now to build models and thermal simulations to test different hypothesis in order to understand what we have found," Tayoubi said. 
  
 Temperature differences detected between two adjacent stones from limestone of different qualities usually range from 0.1 to 0.5 degrees. But at the ground level of the Cheops pyramid, on the eastern side, Tayoubi's team detected an area of three blocks that showed a 6-degree temperature gap with neighboring blocks. 
  
 "This anomaly is really quite impressive and it's just in front of us, at the ground level," Mehdi Tayoubi, founder of the Paris-based Heritage Innovation Preservation Institute involved in the scanning, told Discovery News. 
  
 Several thermal anomalies were observed on all monuments, but one, particularly remarkable, was detected on the eastern side of the Great Pyramid, also known as Khufu or Cheops, at the ground level. Lost Egyptian Pyramids Found? 
  
 The project uses a mix of technologies such as infrared thermography, muon radiography, and 3D reconstruction to look at the inside of four pyramids, which are more than 4,500 years old. They include Khufu, or Cheops, Khafre or Chephren at Giza, the Bent pyramid and the Red pyramid at Dahshur. New Clues Point to Secret Chamber in King Tut Tomb 
  
 Launched by Egypt's Ministry of Antiquities, a project called Scan Pyramid aims at scanning the largest pyramids of Egypt in order to detect the presence of any unknown internal structures and cavities. The technique could lead to a better understanding of the pyramids' structure and how they were built. Striking Anomaly Found in Great Pyramid 
  
 A striking anomaly has been detected on the eastern side of the Great Pyramid at Giza, Antiquities Minister Mamdouh el-Damaty said on Monday. 
  
 The announcement comes at the end of a two-week project to scan Egypt’s main pyramids in order to identify the presence of unknown internal structures and cavities. 
  
 Called Scan Pyramids, the study is in its first stage and is carried out by a team from Cairo University’s Faculty of Engineering and the Paris-based organization Heritage, Innovation and Preservation under the authority of the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities. 
  
 Photos: Scanning Pyramids 
  
 Pyramids are one of the wonders of the world. But why were they built, and why did humans STOP building them? Trace answers these questions and looks at some of the most amazing pyramids from South America to Egypt. 
  
 The project uses a mix of technologies such as infrared thermography, muon radiography, and 3-D reconstruction to look inside four pyramids, which are more than 4,500 years old. They include Khufu, or Cheops, Khafre or Chephren at Giza, the Bent pyramid and the Red pyramid at Dahshur. 
  
 Several thermal anomalies were observed in all the monuments, but one remarkable anomaly was detected in the Great Pyramid, known as Khufu or Cheops. 
  
 “This anomaly is really quite impressive and it’s just in front of us, at the ground level,” Mehdi Tayoubi, founder of the Paris-based Heritage Innovation Preservation Institute, told Discovery News. 
  
 New Clues Point to Secret Chamber in King Tut Tomb 
  
 Thermal measurements were carried out at different times in order to observe the pyramids during their warm-up phase from early morning until sunrise and during their cooling phase from late afternoon until sun set and early night. 
  
 “In cooling phase, the heat transfer is usually happening from the inside to the outside; while in heating phase, it is the opposite,” the researchers said. 
  
 They noted that if an object is built with blocks of the same material and has an identical “heat emissivity,” no significant temperature differences are detected. 
  
 Photos: New Pharaoh Found in Egypt 
  
 On the contrary, if there are heterogeneities in the structure, such as cavities or different type of material used in the construction, temperature differences are detected since some parts heat up or cool down faster due to difference in “heat emissivity.” 
  
 The Great Pyramid showed striking thermal differences. 
  
 Temperature differences detected between two adjacent stones from limestone of different qualities usually range from 0.1 to 0.5 degrees. 
  
 But Tayoubi’s team detected at the ground level of the Cheops pyramid, on the eastern side, an area of few blocks that had a 6-degree gap with neighboring blocks. 
  
 “This anomaly is impressive and obvious. We have several hypothesis but no conclusion for the moment,” Tayoubi said. 
  
 How the Ancient Egyptians Really Built the Pyramids 
  
 Anomalies in thermal measurements can be explained by the presence of cavities, internal air currents, or different materials with specific thermal capacity. 
  
 All anomalies detected will be subject to further analysis, the researchers said. 
  
 “We need now to build models and thermal simulations to test different hypotheses in order to understand what we have found,” Tayoubi said. 
  
 The next steps of the project, which is scheduled to last over a year, will involve long term infrared survey of all the monuments. ||||| CAIRO (AP) — Two weeks of new thermal scanning in Egypt's Giza pyramids have identified anomalies in the 4,500 year-old burial structures, including a major one in the largest pyramid, the Antiquities Ministry announced Monday. 
  
 French architect Jean-Pierre Houdin, noted for a theory on pyramid construction, speaks during a press conference, in front of the Khufu pyramid in Giza, Egypt, Monday, Nov. 9, 2015. Egypt's Antiquities... (Associated Press) 
  
 Members from a French research team use a thermal camera, center, to detect varying temperatures of the limestone blocks during a press conference, in front of the Khufu pyramid in Giza, Egypt, Monday,... (Associated Press) 
  
 French architect Jean-Pierre Houdin, right, and Egypt's Antiquities Minister Mamdouh el-Damaty, second right, stand near the limestone rocks that are displayed on the screen showing varying temperatures... (Associated Press) 
  
 Egypt's Antiquities Minister Mamdouh el-Damaty, briefs journalists after a press conference held in front of the Khufu pyramid in Giza, Egypt, Monday, Nov. 9, 2015. Egypt's Antiquities Ministry said a... (Associated Press) 
  
 Antiquities Minister Mamdouh el-Damaty and technical experts working on the project showed the higher temperature being detected in three specific adjacent stones at the bottom of the pyramid in a live thermal camera presentation to journalists. 
  
 The scanning showed "a particularly impressive one (anomaly) located on the Eastern side of the Khufu pyramid at ground level," the ministry said in a statement. The largest of the three Giza pyramids is known locally as Khufu and internationally as Cheops. 
  
 The thermal scanning was carried out at all times of the day, including during sunrise, as the sun heats the structures from the outside, and then during sunset as the pyramids are cooling down. The speed of the heating and cooling phases is being used to uncover "hypotheses" such as empty areas in the pyramids, internal air currents, or different building materials used. 
  
 "The first row of the pyramid's stones are all uniform, then we come here and find that there's a difference in the formation," said el-Damaty, pointing at the three stones showing higher temperatures. 
  
 While inspecting the area, el-Damaty said they found "that there is something like a small passage in the ground that you can see, leading up to the pyramids ground, reaching an area with a different temperature. What will be behind it?" 
  
 Other heat anomalies were detected in the upper half of the pyramid that the experts said need to be investigated further. 
  
 El-Damaty invited all Egyptologists, especially those interested in ancient Egyptian architecture, to join in the research and help come up with ideas on what could be behind the anomalies. 
  
 The pyramids, located on the outskirts of Cairo, are one of the major tourist attractions in the country. The pyramids, which were used at sacred burial structures, were built in the fourth Pharaonic dynasty. The great pyramid is the oldest and only surviving monument of the seven wonders of the ancient world. |||||