The students in School Number 15, in the city of Chelyabinsk some 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) east of Moscow, had just finished first period when a blinding light flashed through the windows of the building. Then, at about 9:20 a.m., a violent shockwave from an explosion shattered the glass. 
  
 "There was a very loud noise, similar to the roar of an airplane, and then a detonation and the shattering of glass," one of the school pupils told the Russian news website Lifenews.ru. "We've never seen anything like it in our lives. We had the feeling that something very large had landed in the neighboring courtyard." According to initial media reports, some 20 pupils in the school and in a neighboring kindergarten were injured. 
  
 What caused the windows in Chelyabinsk to shatter was documented in numerous videos and photos. A meteor pushed its way through the atmosphere on Friday morning and broke up some 30 to 50 kilometers above the Earth's surface before several piece crashed to the ground*. Across the region, people on their way to work became witnesses to the rare phenomenon. Numerous commuters filmed the meteorite, many of them more by chance than intent: Many Russians have installed video cameras, called dashcams, in their cars in order to help prove their innocence in the case of accidents or to document corrupt traffic cops. 
  
 Some of the footage, such as that from the airport in Yekaterinburg, shows the path of the meteorite from a distance along with its characteristic tail. But images from Chelyabinsk itself also show how the meteorite burst into a blinding fire-ball. The Russian Academy of Sciences said in a statement that it released the energy of several kilotons in the skies above Chelyabinsk. 
  
 'Significant Thermal Explosion' 
  
 Hundreds of calls from fearful residents flooded into local emergency services. According to Russian authorities, some 950 people were injured, with fully 750 of them in Chelyabinsk, population 1.1 million. Most of the injuries were from broken glass as the shockwave from the explosion burst windows across the city and in surrounding villages. City officials said that up to 3,000 buildings were damaged by the shockwave emitted by the detonation. A state of emergency was called in the city. 
  
 A zinc factory was particularly hard hit, with heavy damage to the roof and to factory walls. It looked, witnesses said, as though it had been struck by a bomb. 
  
 "The clear morning sky meant (the meteorite) could easily be observed," said Sergei Smirnov from the Pulkovo Observatory in St. Petersburg. He said it "was a relatively large object." Its weight has been estimated at 10 tons and entered the atmosphere travelling at an estimated speed of 54,000 kilometers per hour (33,000 mph). 
  
 Andrei Lukashev, a professor in Moscow, spoke of a "significant thermal explosion." He added, however, that the object was relatively small in comparison to other asteroids. Were a larger meteorite to strike the earth, he said, it could result in damage "worse than a nuclear explosion." 
  
 As soon as the initial shock from the event began to subside, the meteorite continued its journey through social networks such as the Facebook-clone Vkontakte.ru and Twitter. Some spoke of the "end of the world," noting that the chronically tardy Russian postal service only now delivered it instead of on Dec. 21 as planned. Also, an image of a shirtless Vladimir Putin riding the tail of the meteorite began making the rounds. 
  
 The gallows humor seems initially not to be as tasteless as it could have been. It looks as though Chelyabinsk barely escaped a much larger disaster. ||||| Russia’s Urals region has been rocked by a meteorite explosion in the stratosphere. The impact wave damaged several buildings, and blew out thousands of windows amid frigid winter weather. Hundreds have sought medical attention for minor injuries. 
  
 ­Follow RT's LIVE UPDATES. 
  
 Eyewitness accounts of the meteorite phenomenon, handpicked by RT. 
  
 Around 1,200 people have sought medical attention in Chelyabinsk alone because of the disaster, the official website of regional governor Mikhail Yurevich reported. Over 50 of those injured have been hospitalized, two of whom are in critical condition. The number of injured includes 289 children, the website said. A 52-year-old woman who suffered a spinal fracture will be transported to Moscow for treatment. 
  
  
  
 Army units found three meteorite debris impact sites, two of which are in an area near Chebarkul Lake, west of Chelyabinsk. The third site was found some 80 kilometers further to the northwest, near the town of Zlatoust. One of the fragments that struck near Chebarkul left a crater six meters in diameter. 
  
 Servicemembers from the tank brigade that found the crater have confirmed that background radiation levels at the site are normal. 
  
  
  
 A hole in Chebarkul Lake made by meteorite debris. Photo by Chebarkul town head Andrey Orlov. 
  
  
  
 Police officers, environmentalists and EMERCOM experts at the site of a meteorite hit in the Chelyabinsk Region. Small 0.5-1 cm pieces of black matter resembling rock were found around the ice hole caused by the meteorite. Photo courtesy of the press service of the Interior Ministry's Main Directorate for the Chelyabinsk Region.(RIA Novosti) 
  
 Experts working at the site of the impact told Lifenews tabloid that the fragment is most likely solid, and consists of rock and iron. 
  
 A local fisherman told police he found a large hole in the lake’s ice, which could be a result of a meteorite impact. The site was immediately sealed off by police, a search team is now waiting for divers to arrive and explore the bottom of the lake. 
  
 Samples of water taken from the lake have not revealed any excessive radioactivity or foreign material. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Weather sattelite Meteosat 10 has taken an image of the meteriote shortly after entering the atmosphere.(Copyright 2013 © EUMETSAT) 
  
 Russian space agency Roskosmos has confirmed the object that crashed in the Chelyabinsk region is a meteorite: 
  
 “According to preliminary estimates, this space object is of non-technogenic origin and qualifies as a meteorite. It was moving at a low trajectory with a speed of about 30 km/s.” 
  
 According to estimates by the Russian Academy of Sciences, the space object weighed about 10 tons before entering Earth’s atmosphere. 
  
 ­A meteorite is a solid piece of debris from space objects such as asteroids or comets, ranging in size from tiny to gigantic. 
  
 When a meteorite falls on Earth, passing through the atmosphere causes it to heat up and emit a trail of light, forming a fireball known as a meteor, or shooting or falling star. 
  
 A bright flash was seen in the Chelyabinsk, Tyumen and Sverdlovsk regions, Russia’s Republic of Bashkiria and in northern Kazakhstan. 
  
 The Russian army has joined the rescue operation. Radiation, chemical and biological protection units have been put on high alert. Since the explosion occurred several kilometers above the Earth, a large ground area must be thoroughly checked for radiation and other threats. 
  
  
  
 According to preliminary reports, the worst damage on the ground in Chelyabinsk was at a zinc factory, the walls and roof of which were partially destroyed by an impact wave. The city's Internet and mobile service were reportedly interrupted because of the damage inflicted near the factory. 
  
 Chelyabinsk administration’s website said nearly 3,000 buildings were damaged to varying extents by the meteor shower in the city, including 34 medical facilities and 361 schools and kindergartens. The total amount of window glass shattered amounts to 100,000 square meters, the site said, citing city administration head Sergey Davydov. The ministry also said that no local power stations or civil aircraft were damaged by the meteorite shower, and that “all flights proceed according to schedule.” 
  
 Buildings were left without gas because facilities in the city had also been damaged, an Emergency Ministry spokesperson said, according to Russia 24 news channel. 
  
  
  
 The Emergency Ministry reported that 20,000 rescue workers are operating in the region. Three aircraft were deployed to survey the area and locate other possible impact locations. 
  
  
  
 The trail of a falling object is seen above a residential apartment block in the Urals city of Chelyabinsk, on February 15, 2013.(AFP Photo / Oleg Kargopolov) 
  
 The regional Emergency Ministry denied previous unconfirmed reports by local media that the meteorite was shot by the military air defenses. 
  
 The local newspaper Znak reported the meteorite was intercepted by an air defense unit at the Urzhumka settlement near Chelyabinsk. Quoting a source in the military, it wrote a missile salvo blew the meteorite to pieces at an altitude of 20 kilometers. 
  
  
  
 Regnum news agency quoted a military source who claimed that the vapor condensation trail of the meteorite speaks to the fact that the meteorite was intercepted by air defenses. 
  
 Witnesses said the explosion was so loud that it seemed like an earthquake and thunder had struck at the same time, and that there were huge trails of smoke across the sky. Others reported seeing burning objects fall to earth. 
  
 A spokesperson for the Urals regional Emergency Ministry center claimed it sent out a mass SMS warning residents about a possible meteorite shower. However, eyewitnesses said they either never received it, or got the message after the explosion had occurred. The Emergency Ministry has since denied sending out the SMS warning, and said the spokesperson that spread the false information “will be fired.” 
  
  
  
 Classes for all Chelyabinsk schools have been canceled, mostly due to broken windows. Institute students have been dismissed until next Monday. Authorities also ordered all kindergartens with broken windows to return children to their families. 
  
 Meteorite shook Chelyabinsk this morning. Shook my whole building and woke me up!#челябинскyoutube.com/watch?v=4ZxXYs… — Michael Garnett (@MichaelGarnett) February 15, 2013 
  
 Police in the Chelyabinsk region are reportedly on high alert, and have begun ‘Operation Fortress’ in order to protect vital infrastructure. 
  
  
  
 Office buildings in downtown Chelyabinsk have been evacuated. An emergency message published on the website of the Chelyabinsk regional authority urged residents to pick up their children from school and remain at home if possible. 
  
 Those in Chelyabinsk who had their windows smashed are scrambling to cover the openings with anything available – the temperature in the city is currently -6°C. 
  
 Chelyabinsk regional governor Mikhail Yurevich said that preserving the city’s central heating system is authorities’ primary goal. 
  
 “Do not panic, this is an ordinary situation we can manage in a couple of days,” the governor said in and address to city residents. 
  
  
  
 Background radiation levels in Chelyabinsk remain unchanged, the Emergency Ministry reported. 
  
  
  
 Local zinc factory was damaged the severest, some of its walls collapsing (Photo from Twitter.com user @TimurKhorev) 
  
  
  
 Screenshot from YouTube user Gregor Grimm 
  
 Residents of the town of Emanzhilinsk, some 50 kilometers from Chelyabinsk, said they saw a flying object that suddenly burst into flames, broke apart and fell to earth, and that a black cloud had been seen hanging above the town. Witnesses in Chelyabinsk said the city’s air smells like gunpowder. 
  
  
  
 Screenshot from YouTube user Gregor Grimm 
  
 Many locals reported that the explosion rattled their houses and smashed windows. “This explosion, my ears popped, windows were smashed… phone doesn’t work,” Evgeniya Gabun wrote on Twitter. 
  
 “My window smashed, I am all shaking! Everybody says that a plane crashed,” Twitter user Katya Grechannikova reported. 
  
 “My windows were not smashed, but I first thought that my house is being dismantled, then I thought it was a UFO, and my eventual thought was an earthquake,” Bukreeva Olga wrote on Twitter. 
  
 The Mayak nuclear complex near the town of Ozersk was not affected by the incident, according to reports. Mayak, one of the world’s biggest nuclear facilities that used to house plutonium production reactors and a reprocessing plant, is located 72 kilometers northwest of Chelyabinsk. 
  
  
  
 NASA scientists said that the incident is not connected to the approach of 2012 DA14, which measures 45 to 95 meters in diameter and will be passing by Earth tonight at around 19:25 GMT, at the record close distance of 27,000 kilometers. 
  
  
  
  
  
 Photo from Twitter.com user @varlamov 
  
 ­ 
  
 Another Tunguska event? 
  
  
  
 The incident in Chelyabinsk bears a strong resemblance to the 1908 Tunguska event – an exceptionally powerful explosion in Siberia believed to have been caused by a fragment of a comet or meteor. 
  
 According to estimates, the energy of the Tunguska blast may have been as high as 50 megatons of TNT, equal to a nuclear explosion. Some 80 million trees were leveled over a 2,000-square-kilometer area. The Tunguska blast remains one of the most mysterious events in history, prompting a wide array of hypotheses on its cause, including a black hole passing through Earth and the wreck of an alien spacecraft. 
  
 It is believed that if the Tunguska event had happened 4 hours later, due to the rotation of the Earth it would have completely destroyed the city of Vyborg and significantly damaged St. Petersburg. 
  
  
  
 When a similar, though less powerful, unexplained explosion happened in Brazil in 1930, it was named the ‘Brazilian Tunguska.’ The Tunguska event also prompted debate and research into preventing or mitigating asteroid impacts. 
  
  
  
 Still from YouTube video/fed potapow 
  
  
  
 Still from YouTube video/fed potapow 
  
  
  
 Still from YouTube video/fed potapow 
  
  
  
 Still from YouTube video/fed potapow 
  
  
  
 Photo from Twitter.com user @znak_com 
  
  
  
 Photo from Twitter.com user @Frolov_kgn Alexander ||||| Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's Daniel Sandford says people described a ball of fire in the sky 
  
 A meteor crashing in Russia's Ural mountains has injured at least 950 people, as the shockwave blew out windows and rocked buildings. 
  
 Most of those hurt, in the Chelyabinsk region where meteorites fell, suffered cuts and bruises but at least 46 remain in hospital. 
  
 A fireball streaked through the clear morning sky, followed by loud bangs. 
  
 President Vladimir Putin said he thanked God no big fragments had fallen in populated areas. 
  
 A large meteorite landed in a lake near Chebarkul, a town in Chelyabinsk region. 
  
 The meteor's dramatic passing was witnessed in Yekaterinburg, 200km (125 miles) to the north, and in Kazakhstan, to the south. 
  
 "It was quite extraordinary," Chelyabinsk resident Polina Zolotarevskaya told BBC News. "We saw a very bright light and then there was a kind of a track, white and yellow in the sky." 
  
 "The explosion was so strong that some windows in our building and in the buildings that are across the road and in the city in general, the windows broke." 
  
 Officials say a large meteor partially burned up in the lower atmosphere, resulting in a number of meteorites falling earthwards. 
  
 Thousands of rescue workers have been dispatched to the area to provide help to the injured, the emergencies ministry said. 
  
 The Chelyabinsk region, about 1,500km (930 miles) east of Moscow, is home to many factories, a nuclear power plant and the Mayak atomic waste storage and treatment centre. 
  
 Asteroids, meteors and meteorites Asteroids are small bodies that orbit the Sun as the Earth does 
  
 are small bodies that orbit the Sun as the Earth does Larger asteroids are called planetoids or minor planets , smaller ones often called meteoroids 
  
 or , smaller ones often called meteoroids Once any of these enters our planet's atmosphere, it becomes a meteor 
  
 Many meteors break into pieces or burn up entirely as they speed through the atmosphere 
  
 Once meteors or fragments actually hit the earth's surface, they become meteorites Q&A: Asteroid impacts Can we know about every rock? 
  
 One Russian politician said the event was not a meteor shower but a US weapons test, Russia's Interfax news agency reported. 
  
 Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the ultra-nationalist Liberal Democratic Party, was quoted as saying: "Meteors are falling. Those are not meteors, it is Americans testing their new weapon." 
  
 'Blinding' 
  
 Chelyabinsk's health department said 985 people had sought medical treatment, including 204 children, Interfax reported. Two people in the town of Kopeysk were in a serious condition, it added. 
  
 The governor of Chelyabinsk region, Mikhail Yurevich, was quoted elsewhere as saying 950 people had been hurt, two seriously. 
  
 Mr Putin promised "immediate" aid for people affected, saying kindergartens and schools had been damaged, and work disrupted at industrial enterprises. 
  
 Many children were at lessons when the meteor fell at around 09:20 (03:20 GMT). 
  
 Video posted online showed frightened, screaming youngsters at one Chelyabinsk school, where corridors were littered with broken glass. 
  
 Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Footage shows an icy lake near Chebarkul, where police say a meteorite landed 
  
 Chelyabinsk resident Sergei Serskov told BBC News the city had felt like a "war zone" for 20 to 30 minutes. 
  
 "I was in the office when suddenly I saw a really bright flash in the window in front of me," he said. 
  
 "Then I smelt fumes. I looked out the window and saw a huge line of smoke, like you get from a plane but many times bigger." 
  
 "A few minutes later the window suddenly came open and there was a huge explosion, followed by lots of little explosions." 
  
 In Yekaterinburg, 36-year-old resident Viktor Prokofiev was driving to work when he witnessed the event. 
  
 Image caption The meteor glimpsed from a satellite 
  
 "It was quite dark, but it suddenly became as bright as if it was day," he was quoted by Reuters as saying. 
  
 "I felt like I was blinded by headlights." 
  
 Debris also reportedly fell on the west Siberian region of Tyumen. 
  
 Governor Yurevich reported that a meteorite had landed in a lake 1km outside Chebarkul, which has a population of 46,000. 
  
 A Russian army spokesman said a crater 6m (20ft) wide had been found on the shore of the lake. 
  
 Asteroid coincidence 
  
 The Russian Academy of Sciences estimates that the meteor weighed about 10 tonnes and entered the Earth's atmosphere at a speed of at least 54,000 km/h (33,000mph). 
  
 It would have shattered about 30-50km (18-32 miles) above ground, with most of the meteor burning up. 
  
 Scientists have played down suggestions that there is any link between the event in the Urals and 2012 DA14, an asteroid passing the Earth on Friday at a distance of just 27,700km (17,200 miles) - the closest ever predicted for an object of that size. 
  
 Prof Alan Fitzsimmons, of the Astrophysics Research Centre at Queen's University Belfast, said there was "almost definitely" no connection. 
  
 "One reason is that 2012 DA14 is approaching Earth from the south, and this object hit in the northern hemisphere," he told BBC News. 
  
 "This is literally a cosmic coincidence, although a spectacular one." 
  
 Such meteor strikes are rare in Russia but one is thought to have devastated an area of more than 2,000 sq km (770 sq miles) in Siberia in 1908. ||||| NB: This story has been updated. Please see new story here. 
  
 MOSCOW, February 15 (RIA Novosti) – A hail of meteorite fragments fell in central Russia on Friday morning, hurting hundreds of people and damaging thousands of buildings, according to officials. 
  
 As of late afternoon, around 1,200 people had been hurt, including more than 200 children, mostly in the Chelyabinsk Region, the Interior Ministry said. Figures on hospitalization in the region varied significantly, from 34 to 112, with two people reported to be in "grave" condition. 
  
 The majority of those hurt had suffered cuts from broken glass, but the region's governor said two-thirds of the injuries were very light. 
  
 President Vladimir Putin ordered emergencies officials to provide "immediate" assistance to people affected by the meteorite. Officials said gas supplies were cut off to hundreds of homes in the Chelyabinsk Region as a safety precaution. Some 3,000 residential buildings were also damaged, Chelyabinsk city administration officials said. An estimated 20,000 emergency response workers have been mobilized. 
  
 Background radiation levels reportedly remain unchanged. This was confirmed both by emergencies officials, and by the national nuclear agency, concerned because the area has a fair number of nuclear facilities. 
  
 Reports about whether this was one large meteorite or many smaller ones initially varied, but the national space agency, Roscosmos, confirmed by early afternoon that the object had been a single meteorite, a report given earlier by emergency officials. 
  
 © RIA Novosti. Meteorite Fragments Hit Russia 
  
 “Verified information indicates that this was one meteorite which burned up as it approached Earth and disintegrated into smaller pieces,” deputy head of the Russian Emergencies Ministry press office, Elena Smirnykh, said. 
  
 Roscosmos stated the meteorite had been moving at a speed of 30 kilometers (18.6 miles) per second. 
  
 "All the city's residents saw blinding flashes, very bright ones," a teacher in the Chelyabinsk Region told RIA Novosti. "Suddenly, it was very, very horribly bright. Not like the lights got turned on, but as if everything was illuminated with unusual white light." 
  
 Officials are trying to determine where the fragments have landed. 
  
 Ваш браузер не поддерживает данный формат видео. Eyewitness Footage of Meteorite Strikes Zoom InAdd to blog Add video to blog You may place this material on your blog by copying the code. <object width="480" height="360" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" data="http://static-c.rian.ru/i/swf/riavideocv2.swf"><param name="movie" value="http://static-c.rian.ru/i/swf/riavideocv2.swf" /><param name="scale" value="noorder" /><param name="wmode" value="window" /><param name="devicefont" value="true" /><param name="flashvars" value="file=http%3A%2F%2Fnfw.aurora-video.ru%2Fflv%2Fplaylist.aspx%3Fid%3D213898%2526fmt=xml%2526adv=0%2526img=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%2Fimages%2F17948/75/179487531.jpg%26amp%3B©right=%C2%A0&info_url=http://en.rian.ru/services/media/179487528-info.html&videofilesize=13.69Mb&videolen=128 s.&blog_url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%23blogcode&video_url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%2Fvideo%2F&skin_locale=eng"/></object> Ваш браузер не поддерживает данный формат видео. (2:08 / 13.69Mb / просмотров видео: 121120) Eyewitness Footage of Meteorite Strikes Zoom Out 
  
 The Chelyabinsk governor said one had fallen in a lake in his region, while others have been reported in the Tyumen, Kurgan and Sverdlovsk regions as well. Police said an eight-meter wide crater had been discovered near the Chelyabinsk lake. Radiation levels around the crater were reported to be normal. 
  
 Early in the day, emergency officials in neighboring Kazakhstan said they were searching for two unidentified objects that reportedly fell in the country's Aktobe region. But no meteorite fragments had been found by Friday evening, local time, leading to speculation that if meteors had entered the Earth's atmosphere over the Central Asian country they had been vaporized before making impact. 
  
 Ваш браузер не поддерживает данный формат видео. ©YOUTUBE, Specszakaz Media Group Meteorite Shower Hits Russia, Kazakhstan Zoom InAdd to blog Add video to blog You may place this material on your blog by copying the code. <object width="480" height="360" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" data="http://static-c.rian.ru/i/swf/riavideocv2.swf"><param name="movie" value="http://static-c.rian.ru/i/swf/riavideocv2.swf" /><param name="scale" value="noorder" /><param name="wmode" value="window" /><param name="devicefont" value="true" /><param name="flashvars" value="file=http%3A%2F%2Fnfw.aurora-video.ru%2Fflv%2Fplaylist.aspx%3Fid%3D213851%2526fmt=xml%2526adv=0%2526img=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%2Fimages%2F17948/21/179482188.jpg%26amp%3B©right=%C2%A0YOUTUBE%2C%20Specszakaz%20Media%20Group&info_url=http://en.rian.ru/services/media/179481328-info.html&videofilesize=5.18Mb&videolen=45 s.&blog_url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%23blogcode&video_url=http%3A%2F%2Fen.rian.ru%2Fvideo%2F&skin_locale=eng"/></object> Ваш браузер не поддерживает данный формат видео. ( 0:45 / 5.18Mb / просмотров видео: 71560) YOUTUBE, Specszakaz Media Group Meteorite Shower Hits Russia, Kazakhstan Zoom Out 
  
 The European Space Agency (ESA) said there was no link between the meteorite and the 2012 DA14 asteroid which is due to pass close by the Earth later on Friday. NASA also said there was no connection because the asteriod and the "Russian meteorite" are on "very different paths." 
  
 Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, speaking at an economic forum going on in Siberia's Krasnoyarsk region, called the meteorite “a symbol of the forum.” 
  
 “I hope that there will be no serious consequences, but it is a demonstration that it is not only the economy that is vulnerable, but our planet as well,” he said. 
  
 Clarifies latest figures for injuries. |||||