Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) 
  
 Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) 
  
 Editors at the Orlando Sentinel had a couple of options for Monday's front page: Offer a traditional treatment with news of the death of 50 in a nightclub shooting early Sunday morning or go with full-page editorial? 
  
 When Todd Stewart, senior editor for multimedia and visuals, left a late afternoon meeting, he thought the answer was a compromise that included the news and some of the editorial. But, he thought, the compromise felt a little soft. 
  
 The front page some 30 hours after the nation's worst mass shooting should make a statement. 
  
 "I actually never worked up the compromise." 
  
 All day, people in Orlando and around the world saw images of the crime scene. 
  
 "It's time for the newspaper to put a voice to what we're all feeling," said Stewart, who started working early this morning before coming into the newsroom at 7:30 a.m. For the first 10 hours of his day, no one talked about the print newspaper, he said. 
  
 "That's a change, even in the last couple of years," he said. "I'm proud of that." 
  
 Unlike the profusion of cable news pundits and politicians who used the shooting as a jumping-off point to make a political point or further their own agendas, the Sentinel opted for a message of unity in its editorial: 
  
 Beyond offering our abundant prayers and sympathy, we must ensure that those who survive — who will forever carry the scars from the trauma — know that they are not alone today, tomorrow or in the months and years to come. Let our community define itself by our unequivocal response: United. 
  
 Included in the Sentinel's ongoing work on Sunday — 30 videos and 40 stories. 
  
 Avido Khahaifa, the Sentinel's editor and publisher, isn't sure there's a right or wrong decision for Monday's front page. He understands the impulse to take a traditional approach. 
  
 "I just think this called for something different from us," he said. "What we're doing kind of captures what the day has felt like." ||||| CLOSE Scores of people were killed and many more were wounded in the shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. 
  
 Orlando police officers seen outside of Pulse nightclub after a fatal shooting and hostage situation on June 12, 2016 in Orlando, Florida. The suspect was shot and killed by police after 20 people died and 42 were injured. (Photo by Gerardo Mora/Getty Images) (Photo: Gerardo Mora, Getty Images) 
  
 A night of partying and dancing at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, turned into a killing ground and three hours of terror for early-morning revelers when a gunman opened fire around 2 a.m. ET inside the club, killing 50 people and wounding at least 53 in what is being called the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. 
  
 Here’a a rough timeline of the three hours from the time the gunman gained entrance to the club, Pulse Orlando, around 2 a.m. ET to the time authorities killed the assailant around 5 a.m. ET. (All times are Eastern standard time). 
  
 SIEGE BEGINS: 
  
 2:02 a.m. Shots ring out as a police officer working as a security guard engages in gun battle with assailant, Omar Mateen, 29, of Port St. Lucie, Fla., outside the Pulse Orlando nightclub around closing time, according to Orlando police chief John Mina. Mateen was armed with an AR-15-style assault rifle, a handgun and an unidentified device. 
  
 The gunman makes way into club, where more than 300 people were enjoying Latino night, and opens fire, causing chaos as patrons realize what is unfolding. Mateen fired an "unknown number of rounds," the police chief said. "There were numerous shots." Eyewitnesses said people on the dance floor and around the bar area dived to the floor, with some lucky enough to flee. 
  
 Jackie Smith, who was inside the club and says two friends were shot, told the Associated Press after release from Orlando Regional Medical Center: "Some guy walked in and started shooting everybody. He had an automatic rifle, so nobody stood a chance. I just tried to get out of there." 
  
 2:06 a.m. Mina Justice was sound asleep when, she told the Associated Press, she got a text from her son, Eddie, from inside the club. 
  
 “Mommy I love you,” the message said. “In club they shooting.” 
  
 CLOSE Mina Justice's 30-year-old son Eddie texted her from the Pulse nightclub when the shooting occurred. He said he ran into a bathroom with other patrons to hide and told her to call police. He then texted her: "He's coming, I'm gonna die." AP 
  
 2:09 a.m. About seven minutes after the first shot, the Pulse Orlando nightclub's Facebook page zapped out a chilling message: "Everyone get out of pulse and keep running." 
  
 2:17 a.m. @bjoewolf (Brandon Wolf), tweets: “Omg. Shooting at pulse. We hid in the bathroom. And we can’t find our friends." 
  
 Club goer Christopher Hansen who escaped the club, later told CNN, “It’s just shocking, I just saw bodies going down.” Hansen estimates that 20 or 30 or even more shots were fired. 
  
 Speaking to reporters after the assault, Florida Rep. Alan Grayson, a Democrat, said: "All the killing that was done was with an assault rifle, a single weapon...it was done very quickly also." 
  
 Investigators from the office of the medical examiner investigate on the west side of Pulse nightclub. (Photo: Doug Clifford, AP) 
  
 MULTI-HOUR HOSTAGE SITUATION ENSUES: 
  
 2 a.m. ET to 5 a.m. ET. Law enforcement and the shooter engage in three-hour standoff, with the assailant holding hostages. 
  
 Updates and pleas for help from frightened patrons, many hiding in a restroom, trapped in the club were zapped out to police, friends and the world via text messages and social media, such as Twitter. 
  
 The gunman, according to the FBI, made a call to 911 during the attack and pledged his support to the Islamic State, or ISIS. 
  
 Multiple emergency vehicles and law enforcement teams respond to the scene of the shooting. Bomb units were sent to the scene, as were hazardous material teams. 
  
 Around 3 a.m. Orlando Fire Department calls in the bomb squad. SWAT teams were also called in. 
  
 3:58 a.m. Orlando police, via Twitter, warn public to stay away from the nightclub area. 
  
 Shooting at Pulse Nightclub on S Orange. Multiple injuries. Stay away from area. pic.twitter.com/5Di2mc6XUY — Orlando Police (@OrlandoPolice) June 12, 2016 
  
 Law enforcement officials say there was "some communication" with assailant, but would not provide details. "Once the initial shots stopped we were dealing with a hostage situation," Mina said in a press conference. 
  
 Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer says authorities learned through text messages from hostages in the club that between five and eight hostages were with the shooter in a room, while 15 to 25 others were in another room elsewhere in the nightclub. 
  
 SIEGE ENDS AS POLICE STORM CLUB, KILL ASSAILANT 
  
 5 a.m. About three hours after the standoff began, Orlando police chief John Mina says the decision was made to storm the club and "rescue patrons (hiding) in a bathroom" and others still trapped inside the club in an effort to minimize loss of life. The police, Mina said, used a BearCat armored rescue vehicle to "get through a club wall." 
  
 Cops also set off a "controlled detonation" around this time to distract the assailant. 
  
 After the BearCat rammed the club, the shooter opened the club's door, according to Mayor Dyer, and that's when cops took aim at the shooter. 
  
 Gunfire was "exchanged between the SWAT team and the suspect at 0500 hours," or 5 a.m., officials said later during a press conference. 
  
 Police said the gunman was killed in the firefight. 
  
 “We exchanged gunfire with the suspect, and he was dead at the scene," Mina said, adding that the SWAT team's decision to go in saved the lives of "at least 30 possible victims." 
  
 5:53 a.m. About an hour later the Orlando police department confirm via Twitter that the assailant, Mateen, had been killed: “Pulse Shooting: The shooter inside the club is dead.” 
  
 Pulse Shooting: The shooter inside the club is dead. — Orlando Police (@OrlandoPolice) June 12, 2016 
  
 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Melbourne vigil for Orlando victims | 1:43 Several hundred gather in Melbourne, Florida to honor the victims of the terror attack in Orlando. Video by Tim Shortt. Posted 6/17/16. 1 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Human Rights Campaign headquarters stages seven-story Orlando memorial | 0:53 The Human Rights Campaign transformed its Washington, D.C. Headquarters on Friday, June 17, with large-scale images of the 49 victims of the June 12 shooting at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. 2 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB "We're here to hold your heart." Counseling in Orlando crisis. | 1:57 Counselors helping those affected by the mass shooting in Orlando share insight into recognizing need, solutions and why they help. The First Unitarian Church of Orlando is among those hosting counseling. For more information call 407-822-5036. 3 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Remembering the 49 | 2:51 The names and faces of all 49 victims in the Orlando shooting. USA TODAY 4 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Obama offers condolences to Orlando victims | 1:09 President Barack Obama offered his condolences to those impacted by the deadly nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida. Obama said that today the country is reminded of what is good and that there is compassion, empathy and decency. (June 16) AP 5 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Survivor: 'I was begging God please take me' | 1:51 A shooting victim describes how she made peace with dying as she saw bodies around her on the bathroom floor in the Orlando nightclub. (June 14) AP 6 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB FBI investigators interview Orlando gunman's wife | 0:38 The wife of the Orlando nightclub gunman is being interviewed by police and is cooperating with authorities. Noor Salman told police that her husband became radicalized in the last year. USA TODAY 7 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Orlando doctors: Mass shooting aftermath 'a war scene' | 1:39 Orlando first responders worked tirelessly caring for victims in Saturdays nightclub shooting. Hear how Orlando Regional Medical Center handled the pressure of what they described as something like a "war scene." 8 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Orlando shooting survivor: Shooter 'enjoyed' it | 0:25 Angel Colon is one of the survivors in the Orlando nightclub mass shooting. At a press conference alongside the medical team that saved him, he describes the shooter as enjoying himself while pulling the trigger. 9 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Buildings light up around the world for Orlando | 0:41 Famous buildings from around the world light up in rainbow colors to show support to Orlando shooting victims. USA TODAY 10 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB How the Pulse nightclub shooting unfolded | 1:31 A USA TODAY motion graphic detailing how America’s deadliest mass-shooting in history unfolded Sunday, June 12, 2016 in Orlando Florida. George Petras, Janet Loehrke, Ramon Padilla, Jim Sergent and Arek Sarkissian, USA TODAY Network. 11 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Preident Obama Slams Trump For Anti-Muslim Rhetoric | 2:36 President Obama spoke on Tuesday after meeting with his National Security Council. Bloomberg 12 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Omar Mateen: What we know about the Orlando shooter | 1:20 As more information continues to pour in about what happened at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, here's what we know about the shooter, Omar Mateen. VPC 13 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Hundreds gather in Orlando to honor shooting victims | 0:42 Hundreds of people gathered outside the Dr. Phillips Center for the Performing Arts in Orlando, Florida, to honor and remember those who lost their lives in the Orlando nightclub shooting. 14 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB U.S. cities show support for Orlando shooting victims | 0:53 From coast to coast, see how different U.S. cities are standing with Orlando after the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. 15 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Father of Omar Mateen: ‘What he did was completely act of terrorist’ | 1:14 Seddique Mateen, the father of Omar Mateen said he and his whole family were in shock at the actions of his son, who authorities say is responsible for killing dozens early Sunday at an Orlando nightclub. TCPalm.com 16 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB See how Clinton, Trump responded to the Orlando attack | 2:02 Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump made a statement about the Orlando nightclub shooting, suggesting ways to prevent a similar tragedy. 17 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Comfort dogs arrive in Orlando after nightclub attack | 1:04 Comfort dogs arrive in Orlando and are set straight to work meeting with community members affected by the gay nightclub shooting that left 49 people dead. Video provided by AFP Newslook 18 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Strength during tragedy, voices of hope | 2:16 One common thread from the people gathered at the mass shooting scene at an Orlando nightclub, was one of prayer and resilience. The voices of those who were at the scene helped to paint a picture of a community coming together after tragedy. USA TODAY 19 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Scenes from the mass shooting in Orlando | 1:50 Scenes from the mass shooting in Orlando. Andrew West/news-press.com 20 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Son sends text during shooting: 'I'm gonna die' | 1:16 Mina Justice's 30-year-old son Eddie texted her from the Pulse nightclub when the shooting occurred. He said he ran into a bathroom with other patrons to hide and told her to call police. He then texted her: "He's coming, I'm gonna die." AP 21 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Orlando gunman's ex-wife: He was mentally ill, abusive | 1:40 The ex-wife of the Orlando nightclub gunman says he was "mentally unstable and mentally ill." Sitora Yusifiy, speaking to reporters in Boulder, Colorado, says Omar Mateen was bipolar and also had a history with steroids. (June 12) AP 22 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Mourners come together at Lake Eola in Orlando | 0:57 Mitch Foster, organizer of the Lake Eola vigil, explains his motivation. David Oliver Wills sings a song in the twilight. USA TODAY 23 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB What we know about the Orlando nightclub shooting | 1:24 Scores of people were killed and many more were wounded in the shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. 24 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Five things to know about Omar Mateen | 0:42 Five things about Omar Mateen, the suspect in the deadly Orlando nightclub shooting which has now become the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. USA TODAY 25 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Again and again, Obama addresses the nation after a mass shooting | 4:34 President Obama's various responses to the mass shootings in the United States that have happened during his presidency. USA TODAY 26 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Deadliest mass shootings in the United States | 1:53 With at least 50 people dead, the mass shooting at an Orlando nightclub makes it the most deadly mass shooting in United States history. Here are the ten most deadly shootings in history. USA TODAY 27 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Officials speak out on the Orlando mass shooting | 1:40 Officials speak out on the Orlando mass shooting 28 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Politicians weigh in on deadliest shooting in U.S. | 1:11 President Obama, Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump and Florida Gov. Rick Scott addressed the deadly shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida. 29 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Florida LGBT activist: We are resilient | 0:50 The first openly-gay elected official in Orlando responded to the mass shooting at a gay nightclub saying, 'if you think that you're going to stab at the heart of us by doing this horrible, violent act you're not because we love.' (June 12) AP 30 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Orlando Police Chief John Mina on why authorities waited three hours before attempting hostage rescue | 0:40 Orlando Police Chief John Mina on why authorities waited three hours before attempting hostage rescue. 31 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Bartender: My instinct was to get somewhere safe | 1:17 A bartender at a crowded gay nightclub in Orlando said her first instict was to get somewhere safe after a ginman opened fire, killing at least 50 people. (June 12) AP 32 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Fla. Senator: What is happening to our country? | 2:13 Florida Senator Bill Nelson said the shooting rampage at a crowded gay nightclub early Sunday in Orlando appears to be connected to 'Islamic radicalism.' (June 12) AP 33 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Obama: Orlando shooting was act of terror, hate | 5:28 President Obama delivered the remarks after a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida left more than 100 people dead and wounded. 34 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Florida Gov Rick Scott declares a state of emergency following Orlando mass shooting | 0:22 Florida Governor Rick Scott declares a state of emergency following Orlando mass shooting. 35 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB 50 killed in deadliest mass shooting in U.S. | 1:58 The Mayor of Orlando says there were 50 casualties and there are 53 more hospitalized after a mass shooting at a popular gay nightclub. (June 12) AP 36 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Doctor Describes 'Hectic' Scene at Fla. Hospital | 1:14 Medical staff at a Florida hospital say the situation is 'hectic' after a gunman opened fire at an Orlando nightclub early Sunday morning, leaving 50 dead and 53 injured. AP 37 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Gunfire erupts at Orlando nightclub | 0:38 A gunman wielding an assault-type rifle and a handgun took hostages and opened fire inside a popular, crowded Orlando, Florida nightclub. (June 12) AP 38 of 39 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE DEADLY MASS SHOOTING AT ORLANDO NIGHTCLUB Raw: Video shows aftermath of nightclub massacre | 1:19 A gunman wielding an assault-type rifle and a handgun opened fire inside a crowded gay nightclub early Sunday, killing at least 50 people before dying in a gunfight with SWAT officers. It was the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. AP 39 of 39 Last VideoNext Video Melbourne vigil for Orlando victims 
  
 Human Rights Campaign headquarters stages seven-story Orlando memorial 
  
 "We're here to hold your heart." Counseling in Orlando crisis. 
  
 Remembering the 49 
  
 Obama offers condolences to Orlando victims 
  
 Survivor: 'I was begging God please take me' 
  
 FBI investigators interview Orlando gunman's wife 
  
 Orlando doctors: Mass shooting aftermath 'a war scene' 
  
 Orlando shooting survivor: Shooter 'enjoyed' it 
  
 Buildings light up around the world for Orlando 
  
 How the Pulse nightclub shooting unfolded 
  
 Preident Obama Slams Trump For Anti-Muslim Rhetoric 
  
 Omar Mateen: What we know about the Orlando shooter 
  
 Hundreds gather in Orlando to honor shooting victims 
  
 U.S. cities show support for Orlando shooting victims 
  
 Father of Omar Mateen: ‘What he did was completely act of terrorist’ 
  
 See how Clinton, Trump responded to the Orlando attack 
  
 Comfort dogs arrive in Orlando after nightclub attack 
  
 Strength during tragedy, voices of hope 
  
 Scenes from the mass shooting in Orlando 
  
 Son sends text during shooting: 'I'm gonna die' 
  
 Orlando gunman's ex-wife: He was mentally ill, abusive 
  
 Mourners come together at Lake Eola in Orlando 
  
 What we know about the Orlando nightclub shooting 
  
 Five things to know about Omar Mateen 
  
 Again and again, Obama addresses the nation after a mass shooting 
  
 Deadliest mass shootings in the United States 
  
 Officials speak out on the Orlando mass shooting 
  
 Politicians weigh in on deadliest shooting in U.S. 
  
 Florida LGBT activist: We are resilient 
  
 Orlando Police Chief John Mina on why authorities waited three hours before attempting hostage rescue 
  
 Bartender: My instinct was to get somewhere safe 
  
 Fla. Senator: What is happening to our country? 
  
 Obama: Orlando shooting was act of terror, hate 
  
 Florida Gov Rick Scott declares a state of emergency following Orlando mass shooting 
  
 50 killed in deadliest mass shooting in U.S. 
  
 Doctor Describes 'Hectic' Scene at Fla. Hospital 
  
 Gunfire erupts at Orlando nightclub 
  
 Raw: Video shows aftermath of nightclub massacre 
  
 Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/28v6WZe ||||| Glitz Ultra Lounge in Orlando, Florida, after the dust cleared from the shooting. All photos by Sofia Valiente 
  
 VICE is tracking mass shootings in America in 2016, and comparing the numbers with their European counterparts. Read our rationale for the project and the metrics we're using here. 
  
 As part of this project, every so often VICE will take a deeper look at one event that, while representative of a common type of mass shooting, didn't receive widespread coverage. This month, we look back on a February 2016 mass shooting at a nightclub in Orlando, Florida, in which two people were killed and nine more wounded. 
  
 The first shots barely registered with Brandon*. From where he stood by the sinks in the men's room at the Glitz Ultra Lounge in Orlando, the noise was just a low pop-pop-pop swallowed by the din of around 300 people partying to blaring reggaeton. Outside the bathroom door, witnesses heard screams and saw people rushing from deeper within the crowded dance floor to the exits. But beyond that fulcrum of action, the sounds were so soft and brief that many in the club initially brushed them off. 
  
 "The DJ said, 'Oh, it's just fireworks,'" Brandon recalls. "'Keep partying!'" 
  
 Situated on the corner of Universal and Carrier, near the heart of Orlando's tourist district—a mile south of Universal Studios and down the block from the kiddy-theatrical Pirate's Dinner Adventure restaurant—Glitz seemed like it was in a safe part of town. But just before 1 AM on February 7, a mass shooting touched off in the outwardly family-friendly area. 
  
 After those first few shots, a second round of gunfire unleashed by at least one additional shooter slammed into the wall separating the club from the bathroom with a loud bam-bam-bam. One bullet pierced the wall, striking a young man in the lower back as Brandon instinctively dove to the ground. Outside, the bullets ripped into the throng clustered at the edge of the floor by the men's room. Maria*, a young mother with another child on the way who was waiting for her fiancé to finish up in the bathroom, suddenly felt a bullet rip through her wrist. 
  
 Then she saw a man with a gun rush past. 
  
 Maria was one of at least three people shot by the bathroom door in that second burst of gunfire. By this point, the crowd near the bathrooms had devolved into a scrum rushing for the exits. But it took at least a couple more minutes before the terror penetrated the rest of the venue, still dominated as it was by throbbing neon and bass. A cellphone video shot in the bathroom shows the man who was struck in the back laying on the ground, at the end of a trickle trail of blood. Someone in the background yells, "He's shot, bro!" and a security guard pushing his way in screams, "Where?" over and over, while music continues to blast away. 
  
 At 12:59 AM, a security guard referred to in a police account only as "Lehman" ran to Jerome Kenon, Landon Thomas, and Manuel Genao—all off-duty-but-uniformed Orlando Police Department officers hired to sit outside and project a sense of security. Within a minute of that trio's call to police dispatch, victims started streaming out in droves. Another video from inside the club around the same time shows the lights cut and the last attendees filing out, more confused than hectic, as security personnel scream, "Everybody out!" and a man in a long coat appears to perform CPR on a body splayed near the exit by the men's room. 
  
 The rear entrance to the venue 
  
 As they waited for on-duty cops to arrive, Officers Genao and Thomas followed Lehman around the exterior of the club to the exit by the bathroom. Witnesses there told them that a man with a gun had just run out of the building through that door and turned the corner toward the club's rear exit. When they went around back, the group found 23-year-old Jose Jaime Brull-Lopez holding a Glock with an extended magazine, his shirt covered in blood. He stood over the body of 22-year-old Joseph Lugo Villalobos. Once he spotted the off-duty officers and Lehman, Brull-Lopez tossed the gun onto the roof of a storage shed attached to the rear of the club. The officers then ordered him to the ground at gunpoint. Soon after, on-duty Orlando cops arrived and found another loaded magazine in the suspect's pocket. They eventually booked Brull-Lopez into custody on charges of carrying a concealed firearm and tampering with physical evidence, but initially declined to charge him for the shooting itself. 
  
 Brull-Lopez, for his part, at first tried to deny that he'd been inside the club or had a gun. But he eventually admitted to tossing the Glock in a police statement. He maintained he'd never fired the gun, which he said he brought into the club for protection and pulled near the men's room because he was aware of a "beef" between people inside. He went on to claim Villalobos was his friend (although he could not think of his surname without police prompting), that the wounded man had run to him for help, and that his shirt had been bloodied while helping Villalobos to the ground. 
  
 Brull-Lopez threw his Glock away, he said, because he'd acquired it illegally. 
  
 On February 18, he was arrested a second time—after bailing out on his initial charges—on charges of shooting at, within, or into a building and using a firearm or weapon in the commitment of a felony, suggesting that the police now believe he was one of the shooters. 
  
 In the end, the tragedy left nine people with bullet wounds and Villalobos, along with 33-year-old Jonathan Avila Rojas, dead. Local police were unsure how many shooters took part in the incident, but as of the following Monday, they suspected as many as three gunmen were involved. 
  
 Stacked chairs and costume party detritus left at Glitz 
  
 Four months later, the Orlando Police investigation into the Glitz shooting is still open. As such, cops have been reluctant to share names of victims and have declined to comment on the case beyond a few scant official statements. Some survivors are choosing to remain anonymous for reasons of privacy, others for fear of the shooters, one or two of whom may remain at large. Hopes that security or management from Glitz might be able to clear up what happened have also been dashed, as the club was shuttered immediately after the incident and management and official employees have been unreachable ever since. 
  
 "If I asked you to search me, you probably wouldn't reach around my junk."—Robert C. Smith, nightclub security expert 
  
 Despite those roadblocks, conversations with victims, witnesses, people who worked in the club, and security experts offer insight into how a massive shooting like this could happen at a venue with an off-duty police detail and a significant number of guards. Which in turn sheds light on the shocking commonality of mass shootings in clubs and other nightspots across America. 
  
 Within minutes of the off-duty cops' call to dispatch, a number of police arrived and rapidly secured the chaotic scene. By 1:25 AM, they started releasing vehicles, and less than 20 minutes later, Universal Boulevard had been reopened to traffic. By about 2 AM, most of the wounded had either been found by first-responders or made their own way to local hospitals. A grand total of 113 police units stayed on site or in the hospital with victims, trying to figure out what had happened, on and off throughout the following day. 
  
 Within 24 hours, a preliminary investigation suggested to police that the violence had been the result of a conflict between two groups of Hispanic men. By Friday, February 12, Orlando cops were saying Rojas and Villalobos had been members of the two conflicting sides, along with three of the wounded. 
  
 Social media reactions on the night of the shooting and interviews with employees at businesses near the club suggest the incident may have been part of a drug-trafficking conflict between Puerto Rican gangs. Local police have not endorsed that theory, and only obliquely reference gang reactions to the attack in Brull-Lopez's arrest report. But there's a fair amount of evidence supporting the gang hypothesis. 
  
 For starters, Rojas and Villalobos, as well as Brull Lopez and 21-year-old Luis Gadiel Cruz-Nazario—who was also arrested in connection with the shooting on February 18—were originally from Puerto Rico, and although they hadn't been arrested for serious crimes in the United States, Rojas and Villalobos were under investigation by Puerto Rican authorities for drug trafficking. 
  
 Rojas, also known as "Pescue" and described by some in Orlando as a veritable kingpin, had also been pegged by Puerto Rican cops as a person of interest in at least four murders, and he was suspected of violating local gun laws on the island. Reports in Puerto Rican news outlets also linked him to the island's Alkaedas drug ring. For his part, Brull-Lopez doesn't appear to have clear gang affiliations, but his statement to the police on the night of the shooting does suggest he was aware of the "beef" between the alleged gang elements in the club. 
  
 These details might shed a bit of light on the nature of the conflict inside Glitz that night, but they don't explain how the suspects were able to get the guns they used inside the club. According to a police spokeswoman addressing the press on the day of the shooting, the club wasn't just in an apparently safe touristy part of town—it had an "extensive security system." Indeed, people who worked in the venue say at least a dozen guards were on duty any given night, a couple of them tasked with thoroughly patting down everyone coming in for weapons. 
  
 The police spokeswoman insisted at the time that "the club really did everything that it's supposed to do," and cops later stressed to local reporters that this was an isolated event. 
  
 The parking lot at the Glitz Ultra Lounge 
  
 Some experts I spoke to think the local police simply overstated the quality of Glitz's security protocols, either accidentally, or in an effort to assuage fears that might harm Orlando's vital tourism sector. 
  
 "Small mistakes do happen," offers Robert C. Smith, an ex-cop and head of San Diego's Nightclub Security Consultants, the only American firm exclusively focused on bouncer training at the national level. Smith was chairperson of the committee that wrote California's relevant security curriculum; he also flew out to Florida in February to touch base with local clients and contacts, and boned up on the Glitz shooting before leaving town. "Allowing an underage person to slip by you happens," he tells me. "Serving someone excessively in a crowd of thousands of people every night—that happens. But allowing not [a] gun, but guns to come in, allowing people to die, that's not just a fluke of nature." 
  
 When I visit in late March, it's easy to suspect Glitz was never up to snuff. A squat white building with blacked-out windows and a tattered red carpet under its black awning, perched on the edge of a strip-mall parking lot, the place doesn't exude a feeling of safety. It looks like what it is: a failed eatery—the club used to be the Volcano Bar & Grill Mexican Restaurant—sitting on a busy intersection forgotten by through traffic, reborn with an extra dose of neon. 
  
 Employees in the decrepit strip mall regarded Glitz, which used to open long after they closed for the day, with mild suspicion. The receptionist at the Palm Construction School, the closest business to the club, says she assumed it was abandoned until the morning she found police cars outside. Three employees of the nearby Pirate's Dinner Adventure, along with a barber from the strip mall, cite rumors of crime and intrigue, but admit they never visited the club themselves. Rather than attracting locals, sources in the local club world say Glitz drew different crowds almost every night from all over greater Orlando—people who followed DJs or performers, rather than venue loyalists. 
  
 Lawyers hired by Maria and two others wounded in the attacks—they're filing two separate civil lawsuits against the club for negligence—suspect its operators were irresponsible and failed to institute or enforce security measures proportionate to the threat level. Opened in 2013 by Setay McKnight of Apopka, a suburb north of Orlando, the club was run by DiMaggio's Ultra Lounge, an LLC registered to McKnight's home address in 2011. Whereas many of the businesses in the expensive tourist district were owned by hard-hitters in the Orlando real estate world, McKnight doesn't appear to own any other business ventures. Judging by a résumé posted to the job site Indeed, almost from the start, he left the club under the management of Arvind Kalipersaud—a 26-year-old man who'd previously worked retail and appears, according to voter registration records, to have lived at McKnight's home. 
  
 There is no record of code violations or serious complaints for Glitz. But Thomas "T. C." Roberts, one of the lawyers representing Maria, says he found an eviction notice on the venue's door soon after the shooting indicating the owners owed $82,663 in unpaid rent. John Phillips, Maria's other lawyer, suspects the club was operating without insurance, citing the disappearance of McKnight and co. The attorney hopes to flush them out as the case grinds on, but based on past experience, Smith imagines some sort of settlement could be reached even if the operators don't make it to court in the flesh. 
  
 In the year prior to the attack, police responded to 54 calls at Glitz for everything from fights to car burglaries. Two of these calls were for shootings in the club's parking lot: In June 2015 , a shooting injured one there; that October , another shooting injured two more. According to Smith, who cites a photo one of his trainees showed him, at least one bouncer took to wearing a Kevlar vest at the venue. And a person who worked in the club during events on and off for over two years tells me that for a while, at least, Glitz was full of people sporting gang colors and flashing signs. 
  
 The club apparently cracked down on gang symbols after complaints and upped the number of security guards and cameras in the space following a large scuffle on the floor. But the event worker says many of the same gang-affiliated patrons kept coming back. Other regulars allege that, even if the venue had a large number of bouncers, their screenings were inconsistent at best. 
  
 Maria says she and her fiancé were both patted down on the night of the shooting, but adds that it was a loose and quick affair that would have been easy enough to sneak something through. One witness told local reporters that while Glitz security was performing pat-downs, they never checked anyone's ankles. Another patron told Phillips that not everyone underwent even such a mediocre search. And Brull-Lopez said in his statement to police that he was able to get his handgun and spare clip into the club because he was neither patted down nor checked with a metal detector wand, as other patrons were. Brandon, who recalls that a few weeks before the shooting he saw someone packing a gun during a fight at Glitz, thinks the bouncers were allowing guns to make it in—which Smith says isn't entirely uncommon for nightlife security in general thanks to the natural temptations of bribery and friendship. 
  
 Despite Brandon's suspicions, corruption isn't the only way to explain guns making it inside—the possibility of poor training and execution looms. No one involved with the club could connect me to a bouncer there, and none of the lawyers pursuing suits against Glitz are clear on whether the club employed a security firm or retained its own security in-house. But it's legal in Florida to just post on Facebook looking for people to post up at a venue door for, say, ten bucks an hour, $15 if they have a security certificate. And even those trained by dedicated firms might miss things from time to time. 
  
 "If I asked you to search me, you probably wouldn't reach around my junk," Smith says. He's done this exercise with his students before—and managed to sneak cutlery past them because they don't want to get up in his crotch with their hands. (This is where Brull-Lopez told police he hid the extended clip later found in his pocket.) 
  
 Check out our documentary about gun culture in the Sunshine State. 
  
  
  
 &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;span id="selection-marker-1" class="redactor-selection-marker"&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt;&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;lt;/span&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;gt; 
  
 There's no real metric for measuring violence in American nightclubs, but the Glitz attack was just one of three mass shootings at US night spots that week alone. 
  
 That doesn't mean club mass shootings are about to become an everyday occurrence. Nightclub violence writ large is still relatively uncommon, and when it does occur, it's usually an overzealous bouncer roughing someone up, a shooting in the parking lot beyond security's reach, or a fight without lethal weapons. And these tragedies tend to cluster on weekends. But the fact that America can witness three such incidents within a week is alarming enough in its own right. 
  
 Smith doesn't buy into the fatalistic notion that this type of violence is inevitable, though. He believes we can reverse this trend—without undertaking Sisyphean gun control efforts. Citing the example of a club in a rough part of Washington, DC, that operated for eight years with nary a stabbing or shooting inside, he claims that with the right level of professionalization, training, and oversight, security guards can keep every weapon out of a dedicated venue. He notes that three (soon-to-be-four) states now require that bouncers be licensed, some with club-context-specific training—a regimen that owners and insurers are starting to favor out of concern for the effect of violence on their bottom lines. If enough states force clubs to hire sufficiently professionalized guards—people whose jobs depend on their diligence—then venues with metal detectors and comprehensive pat-downs (the protocols Orlando Police say they would have recommended if Glitz reopened) might be able to stop everyone from random hotheads to organized gangs from wreaking havoc. 
  
 Of course, such measures could incur expenses that force bars operating on narrow margins to close up shop. They might also simply serve to push violence between gangs to other venues. But given the sheer number of mass shootings American clubs suffer each year, and the role lax security plays in at least some of these attacks, a new wave of regulation is long overdue. 
  
 "If you know that's your crowd, I don't give a fuck if it's Crips and Bloods, Hell's Angels, or Mongols, doesn't matter to me," Smith says. "If you handle your door, no guns are coming in." 
  
 * Citing safety concerns or a desire for privacy, several individuals in this story have been granted pseudonyms. 
  
 Follow Mark Hay on Twitter. ||||| Brandon Wolf didn't really want to go out Saturday night, but a friend convinced him. So he showed up at the Pulse Orlando nightclub on South Orange Avenue with three friends, hoping to have a fun night. 
  
 It was Latin Night, and the club was full of couples and friends who were dancing and talking. 
  
 Closing time neared, and Wolf and one of his friends were in the bathroom. That's where they started hearing gunshots. Maybe 20 of them. 
  
 "And then we heard them get closer," he said. "So we had to run." 
  
 2:02 a.m. 
  
 A uniformed Orlando police officer working at the club off-duty first heard gunshots. Omar Mateen was outside with an AR-15, a handgun and an explosive device. 
  
 The officer fired at him, police said. Two more officers showed up and opened fire. 
  
 Mateen fired back, and walked back into Pulse, trapping dozens of people inside. 
  
 2:09 a.m. 
  
 A message was posted onto Pulse Orlando's Facebook page: "Everyone get out of pulse and keep running." 
  
 Wolf and his friend hid in the bathroom. Then they heard the gun shots getting closer and decided they had to run. 
  
 "All I heard was gunfire after gunfire," Wolf said. "Eventually, I thought you were supposed to run out of ammunition. But it just kept going and going." 
  
 Ivory Mcneal was in the club's patio area when he started hearing the shots. 
  
 "People were running everywhere. Gunshots were going off. People were ducking," Mcneal said. 
  
 In the three hours that followed, more than 100 law enforcement officers gathered near the club to assess the situation and wait. People were still inside, calling 911 from a bathroom, wanting to be rescued. 
  
 5 a.m. 
  
 Police decided to go in. 
  
 They drove an armored vehicle through a wall, breaking their way in. They threw two Distraction Devices, which released loud bangs and bright lights. 
  
 Mateen shot at the officers who came into the club. One of the bullets he fired hit an officer's Kevlar helmet – which likely saved his life. 
  
 The officers opened fire. Mateen fell to the ground, dead. 
  
 Thirty people were rescued from the club alive, police said. But another 39 people were found dead inside the club, and another two people died outside. 
  
 Just after 5 a.m., Brandon Wolf was in a 7-11 parking lot at Orange Avenue and Gore Street. He ran out safely with the friend he was in the club's bathroom with. A third friend was seen being hoisted onto a gurney, injured. 
  
 But the fourth, Drew Leinonen, was still missing. 
  
 Wolf had called Drew's mother, Christine Leinonen, who got out of bed and started driving from Lakeland. She pulled into the parking lot, got out of the car, and ran toward Wolf. 
  
 They embraced and cried. 
  
 7 a.m. 
  
 At a press conference, Orlando Police Chief John Mina declined to say exactly how many people were killed. But, he said, the number was at least 20. And another 42 people were hospitalized. 
  
 Florida Department of Law Enforcement Special Agent in Charge Danny Banks called the shooting an act of terrorism. Officials said the shooter may have been motivated by Islamic extremism. 
  
 "Any time that we have potentially dozens of victims in any of our communities, I think we do qualify that as terrorist activity," he said. 
  
 Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer called the shooting a "horrific crime." 
  
 "Many lives were lost, and many more individuals were impacted by witnessing the crime," he said. "…We are a strong, resilient community. Tonight, we had a crime that will have a lasting effect on our community." 
  
 10:30 a.m. 
  
 Law enforcement officials counted the casualties: 50 people dead, 53 injured. 
  
 "Our focus is going to be on identifying the victims and notifying the families," Dyer said. 
  
 Imam Tariq Rasheed of the Islamic Center of Orlando condemned the attack. 
  
 "No religious tradition can ever justify nor condone such ruthless and senseless acts of violence," he said. "Our prayers and condolences go out to the family and loved ones of the victims." 
  
 1:45 p.m. 
  
 President Barack Obama said the attack was an act of terror and an act of hate. 
  
 "This is an especially heartbreaking day for all our friends -- our fellow Americans -- who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. The shooter targeted a nightclub where people came together to be with friends, to dance and to sing, and to live," Obama said. 
  
 2:45 p.m. 
  
 U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, D-Florida, said the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the massacre. 
  
 3:39 p.m. 
  
 The City of Orlando releases names of four people who were killed in the attack as Edward Sotomayor Jr.,34, Stanley Almodovar III, 23, Luis Omar Ocasio-Capo, 20, Juan Ramon Guerrero, 22. 
  
 5:20 p.m. 
  
 Two more shooting victims were identified by city officials, as Eric Ivan Ortiz-Rivera, 36, Peter O. Gonzalez-Cruz, 22. A list of their names can be found here. 
  
 6:20 p.m. 
  
 A seventh victim is identified as 22-year-old Luis S. Vielma. Vigils begin taking place all over Central Florida honoring the 50 victims. 
  
 9:36 p.m. 
  
 Kimberly Morris, 37, is identified as the eighth victim. 
  
 After 1 a.m. 
  
 Two more victims identified: Eddie Jamoldroy Justice, 30; and Darryl Roman Burt II, 29. 
  
 After 3 a.m. 
  
 More names began trickled out early Monday morning. By 7:30 a.m. nine more victims had been ID'd: Amanda Alvear, 25; Martin Benitez Torres, 33; Luis Daniel Wilson-Leon, 37; 
  
 Mercedez Marisol Flores, 26; Xavier Emmanuel Serrano Rosado, 35; Gilberto Ramon Silva Menendez, 25; Simon Adrian Carrillo Fernandez, 31; Oscar A Aracena-Montero, 26; 
  
 Enrique L. Rios, Jr., 25. 
  
 7:30 a.m. 
  
 Officials provided further updates on the investigation during a press conference. They said they had all victims removed from by about 11 p.m. The massive crime scene hindered them. They also clarified that there are 49 victims, added with the shooter that makes a total of 50 dead. 
  
 8 a.m. 
  
 Two more victims identified: Javier Jorge-Reyes, 40; Miguel Angel Honorato, 30 
  
 9:30 a.m. ||||| We decided the front page of the Orlando Sentinel needed to reflect what we were hearing throughout Sunday about the shooting at the Pulse nightclub. 
  
 Many talked of the sadness that we were now the leaders on an infamous list of mass shootings in the United States. But also we heard a growing chorus throughout the day that this horror would not be how we are remembered. 
  
 "Let our community define itself by our unequivocal response: United." 
  
 Those are the key words in our front page statement in Monday's Orlando Sentinel newspaper. We published it with a photo of a pair of people in a sorrowful embrace. 
  
 The page anchors eight open pages of coverage in the newspaper, including information on the victims we knew about before the print deadline. 
  
 We are not the first newspaper to go with a non-traditional front page in a tragedy. And, we fear, we might not be the last. 
  
 We hope it does justice to what many of us felt today. 
  
 John Cutter is the managing editor of the Orlando Sentinel ||||| Medical personnel examine a body at the Orlando Medical Examiner's Office , Sunday, June 12, 2016, in Orlando, Fla. A gunman opened fire inside a crowded gay nightclub early Sunday, before dying in a... (Associated Press) 
  
 Medical personnel examine a body at the Orlando Medical Examiner's Office , Sunday, June 12, 2016, in Orlando, Fla. A gunman opened fire inside a crowded gay nightclub early Sunday, before dying in a gunfight with SWAT officers, police said. (AP Photo/Alan Diaz) (Associated Press) 
  
 ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) — The last of the bodies were slowly removed late Sunday from a popular Orlando gay club after a gunman sprayed the helpless crowd with bullets, killing 49 people and devastating a city famous for family-friendly theme parks. 
  
 When the attacker opened fire in the early hours of Sunday morning, it interrupted an evening of drinking, dancing and drag shows at a club known for tolerance for all people. 
  
 Authorities say suspect Omar Mateen emerged, carrying an AR-15 and fired relentlessly — 20 rounds, 40, then 50 and more. In such tight quarters, the bullets could hardly miss. He shot at police. He took hostages. 
  
 When the gunfire at the Pulse Orlando club finally stopped, 50 people — including Mateen — were dead and dozens critically wounded in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. Mateen, who authorities said had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State in a 911 around the time of the attack, died in a gun battle with SWAT team members. 
  
 "I've always felt so safe here for my family, kids. And now, I don't know," said Marlon Massey, who lives across the street from the club. 
  
 Authorities are wondering if it was an act of terrorism and are probing the background of Mateen, a 29-year-old American citizen from Fort Pierce, Florida, who had worked as a security guard. The gunman's father recalled that his son recently got angry when he saw two men kissing in Miami and said that might be related to the assault. 
  
 The Islamic State's radio called Mateen "one of the soldiers of the caliphate in America." Al-Bayan Radio, a media outlet for the IS extremist group, on Monday hailed the attack, saying it targeted a gathering of Christians and gays and that it's the worst attack on U.S. soil since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. 
  
 The broadcast is apparently an opportunistic statement as IS has not officially claimed responsibility for the Orlando attack. 
  
 Thirty-nine of the dead were killed at the club, and 11 people died at hospitals, Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer said. By Monday morning, families of 24 of the victims had been notified, Dyer said. 
  
 Workers removed the bodies four at a time on stretchers out of the club and loaded them into white vans. The action was repeated over and over. The covered bodies were taken to the County Medical Examiner's office. All were there by 11 p.m., Dyer said. 
  
 On Monday morning, officials emphasized that there was no immediate threat to the public and said they didn't know whether anyone would be charged as part of the investigation. 
  
 Jon Alamo had been dancing at the Pulse for hours when he wandered into the club's main room just in time to see the gunman. "You ever seen how Marine guys hold big weapons, shooting from left to right? That's how he was shooting at people," he said. 
  
 "My first thought was, oh my God, I'm going to die," Alamo said. "I was praying to God that I would live to see another day." 
  
 Pulse patron Eddie Justice texted his mother, Mina: "Mommy I love you. In club they shooting." About 30 minutes later, hiding in a bathroom, he texted her: "He's coming. I'm gonna die." 
  
 Justice's name would eventually be added to the city's list of those killed in the shooting. 
  
 At least 53 people were hospitalized, most in critical condition, and a surgeon at Orlando Regional Medical Center said the death toll was likely to climb. 
  
 The previous deadliest mass shooting in the U.S. was the 2007 attack at Virginia Tech, where a student killed 32 people before killing himself. 
  
 Mateen's family was from Afghanistan, and he was born in New York. His family later moved to Florida, authorities said. 
  
 A law enforcement official said the gunman made a 911 call from the club in which he professed allegiance to the leader of the Islamic State, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The official was familiar with the investigation, but was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. 
  
 The extremist group did not officially claim responsibility for the attack, but the IS-run Aamaq news agency cited an unnamed source as saying the attack was carried out by an Islamic State fighter. 
  
 Even if the attacker supported IS, it was unclear whether the group planned or knew of the attack beforehand. 
  
 Mateen was not unknown to law enforcement: In 2013, he made inflammatory comments to co-workers and was interviewed twice, according to FBI agent Ronald Hopper, who called the interviews inconclusive. In 2014, Hopper said, officials found that Mateen had ties to an American suicide bomber, but the agent described the contact as minimal, saying it did not constitute a threat at the time. 
  
 Asked if the gunman had a connection to radical Islamic terrorism, Hopper said authorities had "suggestions that individual has leanings towards that." 
  
 Mateen purchased at least two firearms legally within the last week or so, according to Trevor Velinor of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
  
 In a separate incident, an Indiana man armed with three assault rifles and chemicals used to make explosives was arrested Sunday in Southern California and told police he was headed to a West Hollywood gay pride parade. 
  
 The Orlando shooting started about 2 a.m., with more than 300 people inside the Pulse. 
  
 "He had an automatic rifle, so nobody stood a chance," said Jackie Smith, who saw two friends next to her get shot. "I just tried to get out of there." 
  
 At 2:09 a.m., Pulse posted on its Facebook page: "Everyone get out of Pulse and keep running." 
  
 Mateen exchanged gunfire with 14 police officers at the club, and took hostages at one point. In addition to the assault rifle, the shooter also had a handgun and some sort of "suspicious device," Police Chief John Mina. About 5 a.m., authorities sent in a SWAT team to rescue the remaining club-goers, Mina said. 
  
 At first, officers mistakenly thought the gunman had strapped explosives to the dead after a bomb robot sent back images of a battery part next to a body, Mayor Dyer said. The robot was sent in after SWAT team members put explosive charges on a wall and an armored vehicle knocked it down in an effort to rescue hostages. 
  
 Just before 6 a.m., the Pulse posted an update on its Facebook: "As soon as we have any information, we will update everyone. Please keep everyone in your prayers as we work through this tragic event. Thank you for your thoughts and love." 
  
 Authorities were looking into whether the shooter acted alone, according to Danny Banks, an agent with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. 
  
 "This is an incident, as I see it, that we certainly classify as domestic terror incident," Orange County Sheriff Jerry Demings said. 
  
 Mateen's father, Mir Seddique, told NBC News about his son seeing the men kissing a couple of months ago. 
  
 "We are saying we are apologizing for the whole incident," Seddique said. "We are in shock like the whole country." 
  
 Mateen was a security guard with a company called G4S. In a 2012 newsletter, the firm identified him as working in West Palm Beach. In a statement sent Sunday to the Palm Beach Post, the company confirmed that he had been an employee since September 2007. State records show that Mateen had held a firearms license since at least 2011. 
  
 President Barack Obama called the shooting an "act of terror" and an "act of hate" targeting a place of "solidarity and empowerment" for gays and lesbians. He urged Americans to decide whether this is the kind of "country we want to be." 
  
 ___ 
  
 Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington, Terrance Harris, Mike Schneider and Tamara Lush in Orlando and photographer Alan Diaz in Fort Pierce, Florida, contributed to this report. ||||| The gunman who killed dozens and took hostages at an Orlando nightclub was "cool and calm" in a phone call with police negotiators, officials revealed Monday. 
  
 Fifty people — including the gunman — died in the attack on Orlando's Pulse nightclub early Sunday. More than 50 others were wounded. 
  
 Amid an ongoing investigation into a possible motive, Orlando Police Chief John Mina gave more details Monday on the run-up to the SWAT raid that ended the crisis. 
  
 Related: Suspected Terror Ties Didn't Stop Gunman's Weapons Purchase 
  
 He told an early-morning press conference that gunman Omar Mateen had holed up in a bathroom with hostages after an initial shootout with police. 
  
 Mateen was "cool and calm" in a conversation with negotiators, according to Mina. 
  
 "He really wasn't asking for a whole lot," Mina said. "We were doing most of the asking." ||||| Facebook activated its ‘Safety Check’ tool after the killings at an Orlando nightclub early Sunday, making it the first time the service was used in the U.S. 
  
 A gunman opened fire at the nightclub, killing at least 50 people in what President Barack Obama said was being investigated as an “act of terrorism.” 
  
 Facebook’s tool, launched in 2014, helps users in the vicinity of a disaster alert family and friends about their safety. The tool asks users determined to be in the affected area if they are safe and they can then notify their friends about their safety with the click of a button. 
  
 Facebook said it has over the last few months both improved the launch process to make it easier and quicker to activate the tool, while also testing ways to let users identify and elevate local crises. It has, for example, automated the deployment of the tool so that trained teams across time zones can activate the tool at any time, rather than wait for an engineer to do it. 
  
 “Following the community-generated Safety Check activation this morning in Orlando, we have now activated Facebook-initiated Safety Check for a mass shooting at a nightclub there. We hope the people in the area find the tool a helpful way to let their friends and family know they are okay,” a spokeswoman for the social networking company said on Sunday. 
  
 Between January and May this year, Facebook activated Safety Check 17 times compared to 11 instances in the previous two years. The recent disasters for which the tool was activated included earthquakes in Ecuador, a wildfire in Alberta, Canada, a cyclone in Bangladesh and flooding and landslides in Sri Lanka. 
  
 Facebook has broadened the list of disasters for which it activates Safety Check to include terror attacks, starting with the Paris attacks in November last year. The company decided to use the tool in a terror attack for the first time in Paris after it was observed that “Facebook became a place where people were sharing information and looking to understand the condition of their loved ones,” according to a company post at the time. Before that, the tool was only activated for natural disasters. |||||