The North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) has employed all its hi-tech equipment to follow Father Christmas as he, and his reindeer, travel the globe delivering presents. 
  
 Since its development three years ago, the Norad Father Christmas Tracker has become an internet sensation with close to a two billion hits. 
  
 His progress can also be tracked with three dimensional "Father Christmas Cams". Google will use its mapping service to give up-to-the-date analysis on where he is. This year will include streaming video of his journey for the first time. 
  
 "There are a lot of people who follow this in different ways," said Lt. Desmond James , a public affairs officer with NORAD, which is also responsible for defending the US and Canada from incoming nuclear missiles. 
  
 Staff answer almost 100,000 phone calls and receive more than 140,000 emails from families around the world. 
  
 Father Christmas started his journey at 0900 GMT from his base at the North Pole. According to NORAD, Father Christmas usually starts at the International Date Line in the Pacific Ocean and travels west. 
  
 He generally visits the South Pacific first, then New Zealand and Australia, before heading to Japan, the rest of Asia, Africa, Western Europe, Canada, the United States, Mexico before finishing in Central and South America. 
  
 "But keep in mind, Santa’s route can be affected by weather, so it’s really unpredictable," a NORAD spokesman said. 
  
 "NORAD coordinates with Santa’s Elf launch staff to confirm his launch time, but from that point on, Father Christmas calls the shots. We just track him." 
  
 Norad claim they employ radar and satellites to track the infrared signal given off by Rudolph's nose. 
  
 "NORAD tracks Father Christmas, but only Father Christmas knows his route, which means we cannot predict where and when he will arrive at your house," he said. 
  
 "We do, however, know from history that it appears he arrives only when children are asleep. 
  
 "In most countries, it seems Father Christmas arrives between 9:00pm and midnight on December 24th. If children are still awake when Father Christmas arrives, he moves on to other houses. He returns later … but only when the children are asleep." 
  
 The tradition dates back to 1955 when a Colorado Springs store ran an advertisement encouraging local children to call a special telephone hot line. 
  
 A printing error meant that the phone number for the Director of Operations at Continental Air Defense Command (CONAD) was published instead, leading to the centre being inundated by calls from excited youngsters. 
  
 The head of the CONAD, which later became NORAD, instructed his staff to give the children updates on Santa's position and the tradition was born. 
  
 They now offer the service to children around the world via a google earth map, providing the information in seven languages including English, Spanish and Chinese. 
  
 Col. John Bartholf, a commander with the New York Air National Guardsmen from the Eastern Air Defense Sector (EADS) added: "I can assure everyone that EADS will do everything in its power to assist Father Christmas with this critical mission." 
  
 EADS' Sector Operations Control Center (SOCC) will monitor Father Christmas constantly as he delivers toys and gifts. ||||| Welcome to NORAD Tracks Santa 
  
 All of the preparations for Santa's journey are in place! 
  
 Santa's elves have been busier than usual this year preparing for Santa's launch on December 24th! Return each day to receive updates from the North Pole and to discover new surprises on Santa's Activity Page. 
  
 For even more fun holiday activities, visit the About Santa page. 
  
 Operation Good Will: Find out how you can help make this Christmas very special for those who serve our nation. Check out what each military service is up to these days, and learn how you can help keep NORAD Tracks Santa going for future generations! |||||