Strikes by Dominic Poleon and substitute Tyrone Barnett cancelled out Ademola Lookman's eighth-minute goal.
The victory was Wimbledon's second of the campaign and ended Charlton's six-game unbeaten run.
The Addicks took the lead when Lookman cut in from the left and struck the ball past James Shea from 20 yards.
And Lookman continued to shine when he worked his way into the box and saw his powerful drive pushed away from goal just before the break.
Ricky Holmes could have doubled Charlton's lead in the 54th minute, but his close-range effort was excellently saved by Shea.
Holmes and Nicky Ajose wasted good opportunities to put the game to bed for Charlton.
It was Poleon's trickery which brought about the Dons' equaliser in the 78th minute when he beat two players in the box and slotted the ball home.
It got worse for Charlton just seven minutes later as Barry Fuller's cross was emphatically headed in by Barnett.
Reports supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Charlton Athletic 1, AFC Wimbledon 2.
Second Half ends, Charlton Athletic 1, AFC Wimbledon 2.
Foul by Ezri Konsa Ngoyo (Charlton Athletic).
Tom Elliott (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Dannie Bulman (AFC Wimbledon) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Dannie Bulman (AFC Wimbledon).
Attempt missed. Andrew Crofts (Charlton Athletic) header from the centre of the box is too high.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Chris Whelpdale.
Attempt saved. Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic) left footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Goal!  Charlton Athletic 1, AFC Wimbledon 2. Tyrone Barnett (AFC Wimbledon) header from the centre of the box to the high centre of the goal. Assisted by Barry Fuller with a cross.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Jonathan Meades.
Substitution, AFC Wimbledon. Chris Whelpdale replaces Lyle Taylor.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Darius Charles.
Goal!  Charlton Athletic 1, AFC Wimbledon 1. Dominic Poleon (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the left side of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Dannie Bulman.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Darius Charles.
Attempt blocked. Josh Magennis (Charlton Athletic) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.
Attempt blocked. Dominic Poleon (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the left side of the box is blocked.
Substitution, AFC Wimbledon. Tyrone Barnett replaces Andy Barcham.
Foul by Josh Magennis (Charlton Athletic).
Darius Charles (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Josh Magennis (Charlton Athletic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Paul Robinson (AFC Wimbledon).
Attempt missed. Josh Magennis (Charlton Athletic) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
Attempt blocked. Andy Barcham (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from more than 35 yards is blocked.
Attempt missed. Lyle Taylor (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the right.
Attempt blocked. Dominic Poleon (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Substitution, Charlton Athletic. Lee Novak replaces Nicky Ajose.
Jason Pearce (Charlton Athletic) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Tom Elliott (AFC Wimbledon).
Attempt saved. Ricky Holmes (Charlton Athletic) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt missed. Tom Elliott (AFC Wimbledon) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
Foul by Ademola Lookman (Charlton Athletic).
Barry Fuller (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Morgan Fox (Charlton Athletic).
Tom Elliott (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Substitution, AFC Wimbledon. Tom Elliott replaces George Francomb because of an injury.
Foul by Morgan Fox (Charlton Athletic).
George Francomb (AFC Wimbledon) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Corner,  Charlton Athletic. Conceded by Darius Charles.