As a breed, labrador retrievers often have serious food-related issues—a behavioral quirk that often leads to over-eating and canine obesity. Researchers have finally figured out why, and the answer could influence the way we treat human obesity. 
  
 Many years ago, I had a friend who owned a labrador retriever. This dog was constantly begging for scraps and doing its darndest to sneak a quick meal. Once, I lobbed a morsel of food across the room to my friend, and his dog made an incredible leap for a timely mid-air chomp. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 At the time, I ascribed this over-the-top food-seeking behavior to this one dog, but dog experts have long observed that labrador retrievers always seem to be interested in food. In an effort to learn why, veterinary surgeon and geneticist Eleanor Raffan from the University of Cambridge conducted a genetic study of the breed. “Whenever there’s something more common in one breed than another, we think genetics are involved,” she said in a statement. Those results now appear in Cell Metabolism. 
  
 For the first part of the study, Raffan and her colleagues analyzed the genetic profiles of 15 obese and 18 lean labrador retrievers. Of the three obesity-related genes analysed, one particular gene—the POMC gene—stood out. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 This particular gene appeared to be a bit messed up among the obese labradors, such that they are unable to produce special appetite suppressing neuropeptides. These small protein-like molecules are involved in switching off feelings of hunger after eating a meal. So these dogs are always hungry, even after gobbling down a bowl full of kibble. This mutation was absent from other breeds (except the related flat-coat retreiver). 
  
 Raffan’s team also looked at a larger sample of 310 labradors, and they noticed a significant number of canine behaviors associated with the impaired POMC gene. Not all labradors with the DNA variation were fat, but the mutation was definitely associated with higher weight. And dogs with the impaired gene exhibited more food motivated behaviors, such as begging more frequently, paying more attention during meal time, and scavenging for scraps more often. On average, the POMC deletion was associated with a 4.4 pound (2 kg) weight increase. 
  
 “We’ve found something in about a quarter of pet labradors that fits with a hardwired biological reason for the food-obsessed behavior reported by owners,” said Raffan. “There are plenty of food-motivated dogs in the cohort who don’t have the mutation, but there’s still quite a striking effect.” 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 Only about one in four labradors have this mutation (same for the flat coat retriever), so other factors may be involved. However, the mutation was found to occur in about three out of every four assistance dogs. It’s possible that these dogs are more likely to be selected for assistance-dog breeding programs, because their insatiable desire for food makes them more trainable. 
  
 There could be potential therapeutic implications for human obesity. The canine POMC gene works similarly in humans, unlike the way it functions in rats and mice. “Further research in these obese Labradors may not only help the well-being of companion animals, but also carry important lessons for human health,” said Stephen O’Rahilly, a senior author on the study. 
  
 Raffan said that it’s still possible to own a dog with this mutation and keep them slim. She advises owners to be more rigorous about portion control, and to resist their “big brown eyes” when they plead for food. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 [Cell Metabolism] ||||| There’s no need to body shame your Labrador retriever—new research shows that nearly 23% of the dog breed is missing part of a gene that helps control hunger. The deletions take place in POMC, which helps us feel full, scientists report today in Cell Metabolism. Dogs with this mutation are about 2 kilograms heavier on average and are at least 10% more likely to beg for food or hunt for scraps, according to a survey of pet owners. The finding may explain why Labradors are one of the most overweight dog breeds, with 60% of U.S. labs alone considered obese. But there’s a silver lining. Labs are also the most popular guide dogs because their food motivation makes them easy to train. Indeed, more than three-quarters of the service Labs the team looked at had a chunk missing from their POMC gene. ||||| Image copyright Cell Metabolism Image caption The Labrador is the most common breed of dog in the UK 
  
 The Labrador retriever, known as one of the greediest breeds of dog, is hard-wired to overeat, research suggests. 
  
 The dog is more likely to become obese than other breeds partly because of its genes, scientists at Cambridge University say. 
  
 The gene affected is thought to be important in controlling how the brain recognises hunger and the feeling of being full after eating. 
  
 The research could help in the understanding of human obesity. 
  
 "About a quarter of pet Labradors carry this gene [difference]," lead researcher Dr Eleanor Raffan told the BBC. 
  
 "Although obesity is the consequence of eating more than you need and more than you burn off in exercise, actually there's some real hard-wired biology behind our drive to eat," she added. 
  
 Lifestyle factors 
  
 Canine obesity mirrors the human obesity epidemic, with lifestyle factors such as lack of exercise and high-calorie food both implicated - as well as genetics. 
  
 As many as two in three dogs (34-59%) in rich countries are now overweight. 
  
 The Labrador has the highest levels of obesity and has been shown to be more obsessed with food than other breeds. 
  
 Image copyright Cell Metabolism Image caption Labradors make successful working and pet dogs because they are also relatively easy to train 
  
 Researchers screened more than 300 Labradors kept as pets or assistance dogs for known obesity genes in the study, published in the journal Cell Metabolism. 
  
 The international team found that a change in a gene known as POMC was strongly linked with weight, obesity and appetite in Labradors and Flat-Coated retrievers. 
  
 In both breeds, for each copy of the gene carried, the dog was on average 2kg heavier. 
  
 Other breeds of dog - from the Shih Tzu to the Great Dane - were also screened, but the genetic difference was not found. 
  
 However, the variation was more common in Labradors working as assistance dogs, which the researchers say might be because these dogs are easier to train by rewarding with food. 
  
 Human health 'lessons' 
  
 Intriguingly, the POMC gene is a rare cause of childhood obesity. 
  
 Dr Giles Yeo, a human geneticist from the University of Cambridge, worked on the study. 
  
 "What we have found is that some Labradors get fat because they have a deletion in a gene within their brain," he said. 
  
 "And this particular gene plays a role in sensing how much fat they have in their body - and so some Labradors don't know how much fat they have and so keep eating to try to get fatter." 
  
 Research suggests that over 100 genes influence body weight in humans. Most function within the brain and are involved in eating behaviour. 
  
 Using dogs as a model to study obesity could lead to a better understanding of the biology of the condition. 
  
 "Common genetic variants affecting the POMC gene are associated with human body weight and there are even some rare obese people who lack a very similar part of the POMC gene to the one that is missing in the dogs," Prof Stephen O'Rahilly of the Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Institute of Metabolic Science said. 
  
 "So, further research in these obese Labradors may not only help the wellbeing of companion animals but also have important lessons for human health." 
  
 The research was funded by the Wellcome Trust, the Medical Research Council and the Dogs Trust. 
  
 Follow Helen on Twitter. ||||| Labrador dogs are well known for being fond of their food, but new research suggests their greedy nature could be down to genetic mutation. 
  
 Labrador retrievers are top dog in the UK, with 32,507 animals newly registered with the Kennel Club in 2015 alone. But the breed is well known for its tendency to develop a portly form, a concern given the variety of health problems - from diabetes to heart disease - linked to obesity. 
  
 To find out why the dogs are so food-focused, a team of researchers led by scientists at the University of Cambridge delved into the the dogs’ genetic make up. Their results revealed that more than a fifth of labradors carry a variation in their DNA that could predispose them to weight gain. 
  
 “There is some hard-wired biology behind that persistent food-seeking behaviour,” said Eleanor Raffan, a co-author of the research from the University of Cambridge. 
  
 For the study, published in the journal Cell Metabolism, Raffan, together with other scientists the UK, Sweden and the US, began by looking at differences in the DNA of 18 lean labradors and 15 obese dogs of the same breed. The team focused on examining the DNA sequences of three genes that had previously been linked to obesity in mice. Two of the genes are also linked to obesity in humans. 
  
 A single variation within one of the three genes was found to be more common in obese labradors than lean ones: the absence of a short stretch of DNA in a gene known as POMC. This mutation, the authors add, disrupts the formation of two chemicals: β-MSH, which is linked to the ability of an animal to sense the amount of fat it has stored, and β-endorphin, which is thought to be involved in the brain’s reward pathways. 
  
 To probe the effect of this mutation, Raffan and colleagues recruited a group of 310 labradors. On average, when factors such as age, gender, and whether they had been neutered were taken into account, dogs with one copy of the mutant gene were found to be 1.9kg heavier than those without, while dogs with two copies were on average 3.8kg heavier than dogs without the mutation. 
  
 Intriguingly, when they then examined the DNA of 38 other dog breeds, they found the mutation only appeared in one other type of dog: the flat-coated retriever. “That makes sense because they are closely related to labradors - they were founded from a common ancestor breed called the St John’s water dog,” said Raffan. Now extinct, this breed was used by fishermen to retrieve nets of fish from the cold waters of Newfoundland. St John’s water dogs with the mutant gene might have been at an advantage through eating more. 
  
 “In that context, when you are doing really hard work and having to burn a lot of calories to stay warm, snaffling any food in sight might have been a really good idea,” added Raffan. What’s more, she said, dogs with the mutant gene might have been favoured by owners, as they were potentially easier to train with treats, resulting in the mutation being passed down to modern breeds. 
  
 The research also revealed another titbit. When the team focused on 81 labrador assistance dogs involved in the study, they found 76% of the dogs had at least one copy of the mutant gene. “That could be a quirk of the data, but the other hypothesis is that in order to become an assistance dog you have to be very well trained and pass a very rigorous selection process,” said Raffan. Since training often relies of food rewards, Raffan believes dogs that are more food motivated as a result of the mutation might do better in the selection process. 
  
 But, the authors warn, the mutation is unlikely to be the only factor affecting canine waistlines. “Within our cohort we have overweight dogs without the mutation, we have very food motivated dogs without the mutation and equally we have dogs with the mutation who are lean because their owners keep them very well managed,” said Raffan. 
  
 Yaiza Forcada, an expert in small animal internal medicine at the Royal Veterinary College, believes researchers now need to unpick the influence of the mutation. “The next step would be to find out a bit more details about how the mutation affects the dogs at the microscopic level. Knowing these details would open the door to developing treatment for those dogs affected by the mutation,” she said. 
  
 Giles Yeo, a co-author of the study also from the University of Cambridge, says the research suggests that for some, weight problems might be at least partly driven by genetics. He says: “Obese people, obese animals are not fat because they are lazy and slothful and bad, but they are fighting their biology.” |||||