Media playback is not supported on this device
He also confirmed that John Terry will continue as captain at Stamford Bridge after signing a new deal in May.
Conte was speaking at his first news conference since being unveiled as Chelsea manager.
"Chelsea belongs in the Champions League and we must stay there," he said.
"I know only the road to take the club back to competing and winning the title - work, work, work.
"The coach is a tailor who must make the best dress for the team. Last season in 10th was a bad season, but we must think to the present."
Conte, who took his first training session at the club on Wednesday, said the "right spirit" was vital for Chelsea as they push to get back into the Champions League.
The former Italy national team manager also said he would call on another Italian for tips about the Premier League - Leicester City's former Chelsea boss Claudio Ranieri: "He is a lovely man and I will ask him for a bit of advice."
Conte said that he and the club "took the decision together" to offer captain John Terry a one-year contract extension after the Italian was appointed one month before Terry's contract expired.
"I repeat, John Terry is an important player for me, the club and the fans," he said.
"He signed a new contract in May and we took the decision together. We were very pleased and very happy he signed a new deal.
"I spoke to him at different times and he was very happy to sign."
Conte denied that there was pressure on him ahead of his debut season in the Premier League, stating he was "born with pressure."
"I suffer during the game and I won't let my players see this, or the fans see this," he said.  "I hope there is a small flame flickering that can eventually grow into a blazing inferno.
'The pressure for me is not important. I was born with pressure. It's the norm when you are a player or manager of a great club.
"We must fight for the title, we belong in the Champions League and we must stay there. Every manager has his own idea of football and I want to transfer my ideas to the players."
Conte made his first signing at the start of July when Belgium striker Michy Batshuayi joined on a five-year contract for £33m.
"He's a young player but very strong with good technique. He uses two feet, a great talent. I am very happy that Batshuayi stays with us," Conte said.
"You don't need to take just the champions, you need to take those who can adapt to our football and our philosophy."
Media playback is not supported on this device
Conte waved off an invitation to give himself a Jose Mourinho-esque nickname, but emphasised his hard work ethic that he wanted to bring to Stamford Bridge.
"I don't know if this is a good thing or a bad thing but I have a great passion for football, for my team, for my work," Conte added.
"I like to stay with my players in training - to play with them, to lose with them. I have great passion and I want to transfer that to my players and fans.
"In this tournament it is not a challenge between managers. It is between great teams and great players. These are the most important things."
Subscribe to the BBC Sport newsletter to get our pick of news, features and video sent to your inbox.