Sergio Ramos scored a stoppage-time equaliser after Luis Suarez's headed opener for Barca.
But who was brilliant in the first half and faded badly? Which players were only good enough for 4/10? Who was man of the match? It's our El Clasico player ratings.
Made some nervy saves in the first half and his kicking was pretty poor throughout, but avoided any major howlers despite regularly looking on the verge of one. Had no chance for Real's goal.
Shackled Cristiano Ronaldo pretty well with a typically industrious display. Struggled to get forward but came close to a late winner with a looping header which Casemiro cleared off the line.
Very solid and composed display from a defender who has been giving plenty of those throughout the last couple of seasons. Never looked flustered and made several timely interventions.
Appeared to slip at the crucial moment to allow Sergio Ramos to score the late leveller. Otherwise as tigerish as always but could have conceded an early penalty with a risky challenge on Lucas Vazquez.
Had a fierce battle with Vazquez and got forward when he could, including a cross which led to an ambitious penalty handball appeal. Made one brilliant challenge on Karim Benzema to deny a clear chance.
Very quiet in the first half as the game bypassed Barca's midfield, and was substituted shortly after the break for Andres Iniesta. Really struggling for form at the moment.
Was left holding the fort in the first half as Barca struggled to establish a foothold in the game, but became an increasingly important influence in the second period after the game opened up and Andres Iniesta came off the bench to give him company in midfield.
A weak display, both in terms of his general contribution and physically, with the Portugal international regularly bundled off the ball. Improved slightly after moving to the right of Barca's midfield three but was then substituted.
Tried to get Barca going during the opening period when they were clearly second best, regularly dropping deep and moving infield to look for possession. At the heart of everything in the second half and produced a great pass to create a chance for Neymar. But he also blazed wide a very presentable opportunity after receiving Iniesta's through ball.
His well-taken headed goal lifted an otherwise ineffective performance. The Uruguayan was subdued by Raphael Varane and Sergio Ramos and failed to threaten Keylor Navas' goal, although a dangerous first-half shot was well blocked. Little link-up play with Messi or Neymar.
Occasionally erratic but always a threat, creating Suarez's first-half chance with a good cross and later winning and delivering the free-kick for the opening goal. Produced a brilliant dribble to beat Dani Carvajal but then blazed his shot over the bar. Had another shot blocked after linking with Messi.
Subs
Came on just after Barca scored and greatly contributed to his team's second-half improvement with his controlled passing and ability to move into space. Conjured maybe the moment of the match with a stunning incisive through ball which Messi uncharacteristically fired wide.
Came on for the final 15 minutes as Barca attempted to defend their lead. Conceded the free-kick which led to Real's equaliser.
A late change with no time to make an impact.
Had very little to do, being well beaten by Luis Suarez's goal and seeing Barca fire their best chances off target. His greatest exertion was racing 90 yards to join the late goal celebrations.
Survived an ambitious penalty appeal for handball and honours were just about even in his personal duel with Neymar, although he earned a yellow card after hacking down the Brazilian. Always eager to get forward.
Captain Fantastic does it again. Ramos has a history of dramatic late goals, including an injury-time equaliser in the 2014 Champions League final, and his heroic header stole the headlines again. A generally solid performance despite a couple of loose touches.
Preferred to Pepe in the heart of defence and justified that decision with a smooth display to keep Suarez quiet, although the Uruguayan got in front of him for Barca's goal. Nearly scored with a first-half header from a corner.
So often a source of attacking menace for Real, the Brazilian was fouled to win the free-kick for the equaliser. Did a decent job defending against Messi and made some typically bounding runs forward. Fired a snapshot wide in the first half.
Contributed amply to Real's first-half dominance, with some neat touches and good passing combinations. Was replaced by Casemiro after his team went off the boil in the second half.
Playing in an unfamiliar 'pivot' position in front of the back four, Modric was easily the best player on the pitch in the first half, pulling the strings of an impressive team performance with clockwork passing. Faded badly in the second half but delivered a perfect free-kick for Ramos's goal.
Busy and energetic performance from a player who has done well to establish a starting place in recent weeks. Replaced by Mariano in the final stages.
Diligent in his defensive chores against Alba and Neymar and always looked to use his pace and running power to launch counter-attacks. Could have been given a penalty after bursting into the box to draw a challenge from Mascherano.
Another ineffective performance from a player who has been well below his best during an injury-disrupted campaign. Had a volley blocked in the first half but otherwise offered no threat and was substituted.
Had the game's first effort on target with a tame flicked header and always looked dangerous during his team's strong first-half display, forcing Ter Stegen into saves with a near-post drive and a low toe-poke. Like his team, he was far less menacing in the second half and finished at centre forward after Benzema was subbed.
Subs
Brought on by Zidane in an attempt to stifle Barca during the hosts' strongest phase of the game. Looked understandably rusty after three months out but made a key intervention with a last-minute header off the line.
The highly regarded young winger came on for the final 15 minutes and provided something of a spark with some determined dribbles.
A late throw of the dice from Zidane but barely touched the ball.