A goal in each half secured the Robins a much-needed win for boss Luke Williams.
Swindon controlled the first period and deservedly led at the interval.
Jonathan Obika opened the scoring in the 18th minute, slotting home his second goal of the season from 15 yards after meeting a smart through-ball from John Goddard.
Earlier the Robins ought to have scored when Nathan Thompson lashed a shot over the top from six yards, while Oldham replied when Josh Law curled a free-kick narrowly wide from 25 yards.
Obika almost made it 2-0 when his acrobatic scissor-kick was well saved by Oldham goalkeeper Connor Ripley.
Three minutes after the restart Oldham almost levelled when Ollie Banks fired a shot inches wide from 20 yards.
However, Swindon responded perfectly by going two ahead in the 55th minute as Brandon Ormonde-Ottewill clipped home a shot from eight yards following Goddard's cut-back.
Peter Clarke cleared a late effort from Swindon's Raphael Rossi-Branco off the line.
Report supplied by the Press Association.
Match ends, Oldham Athletic 0, Swindon Town 2.
Second Half ends, Oldham Athletic 0, Swindon Town 2.
Substitution, Swindon Town. Ellis Iandolo replaces Conor Thomas.
Attempt missed. Paul Green (Oldham Athletic) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Corner,  Swindon Town. Conceded by Charles Dunne.
Attempt saved. Yaser Kasim (Swindon Town) right footed shot from very close range is saved in the bottom left corner.
Cameron Burgess (Oldham Athletic) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Cameron Burgess (Oldham Athletic).
Nathan Thompson (Swindon Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner,  Oldham Athletic. Conceded by Raphael Rossi Branco.
Hand ball by Luke Norris (Swindon Town).
Attempt blocked. Luke Norris (Swindon Town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Ousmane Fane (Oldham Athletic) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Nathan Thompson (Swindon Town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ousmane Fane (Oldham Athletic).
Corner,  Swindon Town. Conceded by Freddie Ladapo.
Hand ball by Ousmane Fane (Oldham Athletic).
Corner,  Oldham Athletic.
Corner,  Oldham Athletic. Conceded by Brandon Ormonde-Ottewill.
Corner,  Oldham Athletic. Conceded by Nathan Thompson.
Foul by Nathan Thompson (Swindon Town).
Freddie Ladapo (Oldham Athletic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution, Swindon Town. Anton Rodgers replaces John Goddard.
Hand ball by John Goddard (Swindon Town).
Substitution, Swindon Town. Luke Norris replaces Nathan Delfouneso.
Attempt missed. Yaser Kasim (Swindon Town) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Attempt saved. Conor Thomas (Swindon Town) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Foul by Lloyd Jones (Swindon Town).
(Oldham Athletic) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Yaser Kasim (Swindon Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Darius Osei (Oldham Athletic).
Attempt saved. Yaser Kasim (Swindon Town) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Attempt saved. Brandon Ormonde-Ottewill (Swindon Town) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner.
Paul Green (Oldham Athletic) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Darnell Furlong (Swindon Town).
Attempt saved. Raphael Rossi Branco (Swindon Town) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
Corner,  Swindon Town. Conceded by Peter Clarke.
Attempt missed. Brandon Ormonde-Ottewill (Swindon Town) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses the top left corner.
Foul by Billy McKay (Oldham Athletic).
Conor Thomas (Swindon Town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.